ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Conseco and its businesses are subject to a number of risks including general business and financial risk factors. Any or all of such factors could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of Conseco. In addition, please refer to the "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" included in "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Consolidated Financial Condition and Results of Operations". 20 Certain purported class action lawsuits could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. We are involved in a substantial amount of litigation, including class action lawsuits. Plaintiffs in class action lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including treble damages. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of liabilities we have established and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company and certain subsidiaries, including principally Conseco Life Insurance Company, have been named as defendants in multiple purported class actions and individual cases alleging, among other things, breach of contract, violation of California Business and Professions Code Section 17200, fraud and misrepresentation regarding a change made in 2003 and 2004 in the way cost of insurance charges and related monthly deductions were calculated for approximately 86,500 life insurance policies. In April 2005, a nationwide class was certified with respect to the breach of contract claim and, in California, a statewide class was certified for injunctive and restitutionary relief pursuant to California Business and Professions Code Section 17200 and breach of the duty of good faith and fair dealing. These claims allege that the change to the calculation of cost of insurance charges allowed us to add $360 million to our balance sheet. They seek, among other things, an injunction that would require the reinstatement of the prior method for calculating monthly cost of insurance charges, and a refund of any additional charges that resulted from the change. In addition, a few state insurance departments are reviewing the change to the calculation of monthly deductions. For a description of other current legal proceedings, see note 9 of the consolidated financial statements. The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we and our subsidiaries may become subject to similar litigation in other jurisdictions. Because our insurance subsidiaries were not part of the bankruptcy proceedings of our predecessor company and some of its non-insurance subsidiaries, those proceedings did not discharge any claims asserted in litigation against our insurance subsidiaries. The 2002 bankruptcy of our predecessor company and some of its subsidiaries disrupted our operations and damaged the "Conseco" brand. As a result, we may experience lower sales, increased agent attrition and policyholder lapses and redemptions, than we experienced prior to our bankruptcy. The filing of bankruptcy petitions by our predecessor company and some of its non-insurance subsidiaries in December 2002 caused significant disruptions to our predecessor's operations. We believe that adverse publicity in national and local media outlets concerning our predecessor's bankruptcy and its disputes with former members of management caused sales of our insurance products to decline and policyholder lapses and redemptions to increase. For example, withdrawals from annuities and other investment-type products exceeded deposits by $77.2 million, $147.4 million and $615.4 million during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Supplemental health premiums collected by our Conseco Insurance Group segment decreased to $661.5 million in 2005 compared to $729.6 million in 2004. We also experienced increased agent attrition, which, in some cases, led us to increase agents' commissions or sales incentives in order to retain agents. For example, the number of producing agents and sales managers selling products through the Conseco Insurance Group segment decreased by approximately 34 percent to 6,000 at December 31, 2005, compared to December 31, 2003. The number of career agents selling products through the Bankers Life segment remained at approximately 4,600 throughout 2004 and increased to 4,800 in 2005. While we cannot precisely quantify the damage to the Conseco brand caused by the negative publicity of our predecessor's distressed financial condition, we believe these events contributed significantly to the trends indicated above. Our successful emergence from bankruptcy in 2003 and capital restructuring in 2004 and 2005 have begun to reverse some of these trends; however, we do not expect our sales to return to pre-bankruptcy levels in the near-term. A failure to improve the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could cause us to experience decreased sales, increased agent attrition and increased policyholder lapses and redemptions. An important competitive factor for our insurance subsidiaries is the ratings they receive from nationally recognized rating organizations. Agents, insurance brokers and marketing companies who market our products, and prospective policyholders view ratings as an important factor in evaluating an insurer's products. This is especially true for annuity, interest-sensitive life insurance and long-term care products. Our insurance companies' financial strength ratings were downgraded by all of the major rating agencies beginning in July 2002 in connection with the financial distress that ultimately led to our predecessor company's bankruptcy. This ratings decline caused decreased sales of our insurance products, increased policyholder redemptions and lapses and increased agent attrition, which, in turn, negatively impacted 21 our financial results. The financial strength ratings of our primary insurance subsidiaries (other than Conseco Senior) were upgraded in: (i) March 2006 by Moody's; (ii) the second quarter of 2004 by A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's; and (iii) again in the third quarter of 2004 by Moody's. The current financial strength ratings of our primary insurance subsidiaries (other than Conseco Senior) from A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's are "B++ (Very Good)," "BB+" and "Baa3," respectively. The ratings of Conseco Senior from A.M. Best, S&P and Moody's are "B (Fair)," "CCC" and "Caa1," respectively. The "B++" rating and the "B" rating from A.M. Best are the fifth and seventh highest, respectively, of sixteen possible ratings. The "BB+" rating and the "CCC" rating from S&P are the eleventh and eighteenth highest, respectively, of twenty-one possible ratings. The "Baa3" rating and the "Caa1" rating from Moody's are the tenth and seventeenth highest of twenty-one possible ratings. While our subsidiaries have recently been assigned positive ratings outlooks by these agencies, most of our competitors have higher financial strength ratings and, to be competitive, we believe it is critical to achieve improved ratings. If we fail to achieve and maintain an "A" category rating from A.M. Best, we may experience declining sales of our insurance products, defections of our independent and career sales force, and increased policies being redeemed or allowed to lapse. These events would adversely affect our financial results, which could then lead to ratings downgrades. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted if we are unable to achieve the goals of our initiatives to restructure our principal insurance businesses or if our planned conversions result in valuation differences. Our Conseco Insurance Group segment has experienced decreases in premium revenues and new annualized premiums in recent years as well as expense levels that exceed product pricing expense assumptions. We have implemented several initiatives to improve operating results, including: (i) focusing sales efforts on higher margin products; (ii) reducing operating expenses by eliminating or reducing marketing costs of certain products; (iii) streamlining administrative procedures and reducing personnel; and (iv) increasing retention rates on our more profitable blocks of inforce business. Our efforts to stabilize the profitability of the long-term care block of business in run-off sold through independent agents include premium rate increases, improved claim adjudication procedures and other actions. Many of our initiatives address issues resulting from the substantial number of acquisitions of our predecessor. Between 1982 and 1997, our predecessor completed 19 transactions involving the acquisitions of 44 separate insurance companies. Our efforts involve improvements to our policy administration procedures and significant systems conversions, such as the elimination of duplicate processing systems for similar business. These initiatives may result in unforeseen expenses, complications or delays, and may be inadequate to address all issues. In addition, changes to our claim adjudication procedures have resulted in increased complaints from our policyholders and, in some cases, have resulted in inquiries from state regulators. Some of these initiatives have only recently begun to be executed, and may not ultimately be successfully completed. While our future operating performance depends greatly on the success of these efforts, even if we successfully implement these measures, they alone may not sufficiently improve our results of operations. Conversions to new systems can result in valuation differences between the prior system and the new system. We have recognized such differences in the past. During the fourth quarter of 2005, our conversion to a seriatim-based valuation system to determine reserves for the long-term care block of business in run-off resulted in decreases to insurance liabilities of approximately $38 million. Our planned conversions could result in such valuation adjustments, and there can be no assurance that these adjustments will not have a material adverse effect on future earnings. The results of operations of our insurance business will decline if our premium rates are not adequate or if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to increase rates. We set the premium rates on our health insurance policies based on facts and circumstances known at the time we issue the policies and on assumptions about numerous variables, including the actuarial probability of a policyholder incurring a claim, the probable size of the claim, maintenance costs to administer the policies and the interest rate earned on our investment of premiums. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information, industry statistics, the rates of our competitors and other factors, but we cannot predict with certainty the future actual claims on our products. If our actual claims experience proves to be less favorable than we assumed and we are unable to raise our premium rates, our financial results may be adversely affected. We review the adequacy of our premium rates regularly and file proposed rate increases on our products when we believe existing premium rates are too low. It is possible that we will not be able to obtain approval for premium rate increases from currently pending requests or from future requests. If we are unable to raise our premium rates because we fail to obtain approval in one or more states, our net income may decrease. Moreover, in some instances, our ability to exit unprofitable lines of business is limited by the guaranteed renewal feature of the policy. Due to this feature, we cannot exit such business without regulatory approval, and accordingly, we may be required to continue to service those products at a 22 loss for an extended period of time. Most of our long-term care business is guaranteed renewable, and, if necessary rate increases were not approved, we would be required to recognize a loss and establish a premium deficiency reserve. During 2005, the financial statements of our subsidiary, Washington National Insurance Company, prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by regulatory authorities reflected the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve of approximately $40 million related to a block of long-term care policies. Due to increases to insurance liabilities at the fresh-start date described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, we were not required to recognize a similar premium deficiency reserve in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. If, however, we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval to raise premium rates, the increased premium rates may reduce the volume of our new sales and cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse. This could result in a significantly higher ratio of claim costs to premiums if healthier policyholders who get coverage elsewhere allow their policies to lapse, while policies of less healthy policyholders continue inforce. This would reduce our premium income and profitability in future periods. Most of our supplemental health policies allow us to increase premium rates when warranted by our actual claims experience. These rate increases must be approved by the applicable state insurance departments, and we are required to submit actuarial claims data to support the need for such rate increases. The re-rate application and approval process on supplemental health products is a normal recurring part of our business operations and reasonable rate increases are typically approved by the state departments as long as they are supported by actual claims experience and are not unusually large in either dollar amount or percentage increase. For policy types on which rate increases are a normal recurring event, our estimates of insurance liabilities assume we will be able to raise rates if the blocks warrant such increases in the future. The benefit ratio for our long-term care products included in the Other Business in Run-off segment has increased in recent periods and was 100 percent during 2005. We will have to raise rates or take other actions with respect to some of these policies or our financial results will be adversely affected. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we received approvals (excluding rate increases permitted in accordance with the Florida orders described in the following paragraph) for rate increases totaling $6 million, $48 million and $37 million, respectively, relating to this long-term care business, which had approximately $350 million of collected premiums in 2005. On home health care policies issued in some areas of Florida and other states, payments made for the benefit of policyholders have exceeded premiums received by a significant margin. Substantially all of these policies were issued through independent agents by certain of our subsidiaries prior to their acquisitions by us in 1996 and 1997. On April 20, 2004, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation issued an order to our subsidiary, Conseco Senior, which affects approximately 12,600 home health care policies issued in Florida by Conseco Senior and its predecessor companies. On July 1, 2004, the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation issued a similar order impacting approximately 4,800 home health care policies issued in Florida by one of our other insurance subsidiaries, Washington National Insurance Company and its predecessor companies ("Washington National"). Pursuant to the orders, Conseco Senior and Washington National were required to offer the following three alternatives to holders of these policies: o retention of their current policy with a rate increase of 50 percent in the first year and actuarially justified increases in subsequent years; o receipt of a replacement policy with reduced benefits and a rate increase in the first year of 25 percent and no more than 15 percent in subsequent years; and o receipt of a paid up policy, allowing the holder to file future claims up to 100 percent of the amount of premiums paid since the inception of the policy. We began to implement premium adjustments with respect to policyholder elections in the fourth quarter of 2005. The orders also require Conseco Senior and Washington National to pursue a similar course of action with respect to approximately 24,000 home health care policies issued in other states, subject to consideration and approval by other state insurance departments. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining rate increases or other forms of relief in other states, or if the policy changes approved by the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation prove inadequate, our future results of operations could be adversely affected. We are also seeking rate increases on approximately 65 percent of the total long-term care inforce block in the Bankers Life segment. As a result of higher persistency in this block and lower interest rates than assumed in the original pricing, the current premium rates are too low. This process is proceeding according to plan and, to date, we have already received approval for approximately 70 percent of the total dollar amount of our requested increases. However, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain approval for premium rate increases from currently pending requests or future requests. If we are unable to obtain these rate increases, the profitability of these policies and the performance of this block of business could be adversely affected. In addition, such rate increases may reduce the volume of our new sales and cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse, resulting in reduced profitability. 23 The limited historical claims experience on our long-term care products could negatively impact our operations if our estimates prove wrong and we have not adequately set premium rates. In setting premium rates, we consider historical claims information and other factors, but we cannot predict future claims with certainty. This is particularly applicable to our long-term care insurance products, for which we have relatively limited historical claims experience. Long-term care products tend to have fewer claims than other health products such as Medicare supplement, but when claims are incurred, they tend to be much higher in dollar amount. Also, long-term care products have a much longer tail, meaning that claims are incurred much later in the life of the policy than most other supplemental health products. As a result of these traits, it is difficult to appropriately price this product. Our Bankers Life segment has offered long-term care insurance since 1985. Bankers Life's claims experience on its long-term care blocks has generally been lower than its pricing expectations. However, the lapses on these policies have been lower than our pricing expectations and this may result in higher benefit ratios in the future. The long-term care insurance businesses included in the Other Business in Run-off segment were acquired through acquisitions completed in 1996 and 1997. The majority of such business was written between 1990 and 1997. The experience on these acquired blocks has generally been worse than the acquired companies' original pricing expectations. We have received necessary regulatory approvals for numerous premium rate increases in recent years pertaining to these blocks. Even with these rate increases, these blocks experienced benefit ratios of 100 percent in 2005, 103 percent in 2004, 103 percent in the four months ended December 31, 2003 and 170 percent in the eight months ended August 31, 2003. If future claims experience proves to be worse than anticipated as our long-term care blocks continue to age, our financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, such rate increases may cause existing policyholders to allow their policies to lapse, resulting in reduced profitability. Our reserves for future insurance policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities and resulting in reduced net income and shareholders' equity. We calculate and maintain reserves for the estimated future payment of claims to our policyholders primarily based on assumptions made by our actuaries. For our life insurance business, our limit of risk retention for each policy is generally $.8 million or less because amounts above $.8 million are ceded to reinsurers. For our health insurance business, we establish an active life reserve, a liability for due and unpaid claims, claims in the course of settlement, and incurred but not reported claims, and a reserve for the present value of amounts on incurred claims not yet due. We establish reserves based on assumptions and estimates of factors either established at the fresh-start date for business inforce then or considered when we set premium rates for business written after that date. Many factors can affect these reserves and liabilities, such as economic and social conditions, inflation, hospital and pharmaceutical costs, regulatory actions, changes in doctrines of legal liability and extra-contractual damage awards. Therefore, the reserves and liabilities we establish are necessarily based on estimates, assumptions and prior years' statistics. It is possible that actual claims will materially exceed our reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred significant losses beyond our estimates as a result of actual claim costs and persistency of our long-term care business included in the Other Business in Run-off segment. For example, we increased claim reserves by $85 million during the eight months ended August 31, 2003, as a result of adverse developments and changes in our estimates of ultimate claims for these products. We completed a new claims cost study and developed new continuance tables based on our recent experience which were used to estimate claim reserves at December 31, 2005, resulting in an increase to insurance liabilities of $40 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. Our financial performance depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims experience and future expenses are consistent with the assumptions we used in setting our reserves. If our assumptions with respect to future claims are incorrect, and our reserves prove to be insufficient to cover our actual losses and expenses, we would be required to increase our liabilities, and our financial results could be adversely affected. Our ability to meet our obligations may be constrained by our subsidiaries' ability to distribute cash to us. Conseco, Inc. and CDOC, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary and a guarantor under our secured credit agreement (the "Amended Credit Facility"), are holding companies with no business operations of their own. As a result, they depend on their operating subsidiaries for cash to make principal and interest payments on debt and to pay fees for services provided pursuant to service agreements and income taxes. The cash they receive from insurance subsidiaries consists of dividends and distributions, principal and interest payments on surplus debentures, fees for services, tax-sharing payments, and from 24 our non-insurance subsidiaries, loans and advances. A deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of the significant subsidiaries of us or CDOC for any reason could limit their ability to pay cash dividends or other disbursements to us and CDOC. In addition, we may need to contribute additional capital to improve the risk-based capital ratios of certain insurance subsidiaries and this could affect the ability of our top tier insurance subsidiary to pay dividends. Accordingly, this would limit the ability of CDOC and us to meet debt service requirements and satisfy other financial obligations. Insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to parent companies if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contract holders. Otherwise, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to state insurance department regulations. Insurance regulations generally permit dividends to be paid from statutory earned surplus of the insurance company without regulatory approval for any 12-month period in amounts equal to the greater of (or in a few states, the lesser of): (i) statutory net gain from operations or statutory net income for the prior year; or (ii) 10 percent of statutory capital and surplus as of the end of the preceding year. Any dividends in excess of these levels require the approval of the director or commissioner of the applicable state insurance department. All of the dividends we plan to have our insurance subsidiaries pay in 2006 will require regulatory approval. In accordance with an order from the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation, Conseco Senior may not distribute funds to any affiliate or shareholder unless such distributions have been approved by the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. In addition, the risk-based capital and other capital requirements described below can also limit, in certain circumstances, the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends. Certain states have established minimum capital requirements for insurance companies licensed to do business in their state. These additional requirements generally have not had a significant impact on the Company's insurance subsidiaries, but the capital requirements in Florida have caused Conseco Health Insurance Company to maintain a higher level of capital and surplus than it would otherwise maintain and have thus limited its ability to pay dividends. In addition, we may need to contribute additional capital to strengthen the surplus of certain insurance subsidiaries and this could affect the ability of our top tier insurance subsidiary to pay dividends. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is also impacted by various criteria established by rating agencies for higher ratings. During 2005, we made capital contributions of $160.5 million to one of our insurance subsidiaries (Bankers Life & Casualty Company) in an effort to meet such criteria. The following table sets forth the aggregate amount of dividends and other distributions that our insurance subsidiaries paid to us in each of the last two fiscal years (dollars in millions): Years ended December 31, ------------------------ 2005 2004 ---- ---- Dividends................................................................... $ - $ 45.8 Surplus debenture interest, which for 2004 included $148.0 million related to prior years.................................................... 54.8 192.1 Fees for services provided pursuant to service agreements................... 90.8 91.0 Tax sharing payments (refunds).............................................. 1.1 (32.0) ------ ------ Total paid................................................................ $146.7 $296.9 ====== ====== Our Amended Credit Facility contains various restrictive covenants and required financial ratios that limit our operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2005, we had $524.6 million principal amount of debt outstanding under our Amended Credit Facility. The Amended Credit Facility imposes a number of covenants and financial ratios as defined in the Amended Credit Facility that we must meet or maintain, including: (i) a debt to total capitalization ratio; (ii) an interest coverage ratio; (iii) an aggregate risk-based capital ratio; and (iv) a combined statutory capital and surplus level. At December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all of the Amended Credit Facility's covenants and financial ratios. Although our forecasts indicate we will meet and/or maintain all of the Amended Credit Facility's covenants and financial ratios, our ability to do so may be affected by events beyond our control. Our Amended Credit Facility also imposes restrictions that limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in the economy and industry, thereby increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. These restrictions include limitations on our ability to: (i) incur additional indebtedness; (ii) transfer or sell assets; (iii) enter into mergers or other business combinations; (iv) pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; and (v) make investments and capital expenditures. 25 S&P has assigned a "BB- (Marginal)" rating on our senior secured debt. In S&P's view, an obligation rated "BB-" is less vulnerable to nonpayment than other speculative issues, but faces major ongoing uncertainties or exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions which could lead to the obligor's inadequate capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation. S&P has a total of twenty-two separate categories rating senior debt, ranging from "AAA (Extremely Strong)" to "D (Payment Default)." A "BB-" rating is the thirteenth highest rating. In March 2006, Moody's upgraded our senior secured debt rating to "Ba3" from "B2" with a positive outlook. In Moody's view, an obligation rated "Ba" is judged to have speculative elements and its future can not be considered as being well-assured. The protection of interest and principal payments may be very moderate, and thereby not well-safeguarded during both good and bad times over the future. Moody's has a total of twenty-one separate categories in which to rate senior debt, ranging from "Aaa (Exceptional)" to "C (Lowest Rated)." A "Ba3" rating is the thirteenth highest rating. If we were to require additional capital, either to refinance our existing indebtedness or to help fund future growth, our current senior debt ratings could restrict our access to such capital. A positive outlook by Moody's is an opinion regarding the likely direction of a rating over the medium term. Our net income and revenues will suffer if policyholder surrender levels differ significantly from our assumptions. Surrenders of our annuities and life insurance products can result in losses and decreased revenues if surrender levels differ significantly from assumed levels. At December 31, 2005, approximately 17 percent of our total insurance liabilities, or approximately $4.3 billion, could be surrendered by the policyholder without penalty. The surrender charges that are imposed on our fixed rate annuities typically decline during a penalty period, which ranges from five to twelve years after the date the policy is issued. Surrenders and redemptions could require us to dispose of assets earlier than we had planned, possibly at a loss. Moreover, surrenders and redemptions require faster amortization of either the acquisition costs or the commissions associated with the original sale of a product, thus reducing our net income. We believe policyholders are generally more likely to surrender their policies if they believe the issuer is having financial difficulties, or if they are able to reinvest the policy's value at a higher rate of return in an alternative insurance or investment product. Federal and state legislation could adversely affect the financial performance of our insurance operations. During recent years, the health insurance industry has experienced substantial changes, including those caused by healthcare legislation. Recent federal and state legislation and pending legislative proposals concerning healthcare reform contain features that could severely limit, or eliminate, our ability to vary pricing terms or apply medical underwriting standards to individuals, thereby potentially increasing our benefit ratios and adversely impacting our financial results. In particular, Medicare reform could affect our ability to price or sell our products or profitably maintain our blocks in force. For example, the Medicare Advantage program provides incentives for health plans to offer managed care plans to seniors. The growth of managed care plans under this program could decrease sales of the traditional Medicare supplement products we sell. Proposals currently pending in Congress and some state legislatures may also affect our financial results. These proposals include the implementation of minimum consumer protection standards in all long-term care policies, including: guaranteed premium rates; protection against inflation; limitations on waiting periods for pre-existing conditions; setting standards for sales practices for long-term care insurance; and guaranteed consumer access to information about insurers, including information regarding lapse and replacement rates for policies and the percentage of claims denied. Enactment of any proposal that would limit the amount we can charge for our products, such as guaranteed premium rates, or that would increase the benefits we must pay, such as limitations on waiting periods, or that would otherwise increase the costs of our business, could adversely affect our financial results. Tax law changes could adversely affect our insurance product sales and profitability. We sell deferred annuities and some forms of life insurance that are attractive, in part, because policyholders generally are not subject to United States Federal income tax on increases in policy values until some form of distribution is made. Recently, Congress enacted legislation to lower marginal tax rates, to reduce the federal estate tax gradually over a ten-year period (with total elimination of the federal estate tax in 2010) and to increase contributions that may be made to individual retirement accounts and 401(k) accounts. While these tax law changes will expire at the beginning of 2011 absent future congressional action, they could in the interim diminish the appeal of our annuity and life insurance products because the benefit of tax deferral is lessened when tax rates are lower and because fewer people may purchase these products when they can contribute more to individual retirement accounts and 401(k) accounts. Additionally, Congress has considered, from time to time, other possible changes to U.S. tax laws, including elimination of the tax deferral on the accretion of value 26 within certain annuities and life insurance products. Such a change would make these products less attractive to prospective purchasers and therefore would likely cause our sales of these products to decline. Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and negatively impact our profitability. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to numerous factors, which are difficult to predict, and are often beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: o Changes in interest rates can reduce the value of our investments as further discussed in the risk factor entitled "Changing interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations". o The ability of issuers to make timely repayments on actively managed fixed maturity investments can reduce the value of our investments. This risk is significantly greater with respect to below-investment grade securities, which comprised 4.4 percent of our actively managed fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2005. Prior to our emergence from bankruptcy, our predecessor recognized substantial credit-related investment losses when a number of large, highly leveraged issuers experienced significant financial difficulties. For example, we recognized other-than-temporary declines in value on several of our investments, including K-Mart Corp., Amerco, Inc., Global Crossing, MCI Communications, Mississippi Chemical Corporation, United Airlines and Worldcom, Inc. We have recorded writedowns of fixed maturity investments, equity securities and other invested assets as a result of conditions which caused us to conclude a decline in the fair value of the investment was other than temporary as follows: $14.7 million in 2005; $18.1 million in 2004; $9.6 million in the four months ended December 31, 2003; and $51.3 million in the eight months ended August 31, 2003. In order to manage our exposure to credit losses, we have taken a number of specific steps, including: o reducing the percentage of below-investment grade fixed maturity investments from 5.9 percent at December 31, 2001, to 4.4 percent at December 31, 2005; o implementing conservative portfolio compliance guidelines which generally limit our exposure to single issuer risks; and o expanding our portfolio reporting procedures to proactively identify changes in value related to credit risk in a more timely manner. Our structured security investments, which comprised 28 percent of our actively managed fixed maturity investments at December 31, 2005, are subject to risks relating to variable prepayment and default on the assets underlying such securities, such as mortgage loans. When structured securities prepay faster than expected, investment income may be adversely affected due to the acceleration of the amortization of purchase premiums or the inability to reinvest at comparable yields in lower interest rate environments. In the event of substantial product surrenders or policy claims, we may be required to maintain highly liquid, and therefore lower-yielding, assets, or to sell assets at a loss, thereby eroding the performance of our portfolio. Because a substantial portion of our net income is derived from returns on our investment portfolio, significant losses in the portfolio may have a direct and materially adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, losses on our investment portfolio could reduce the investment returns that we are able to credit to our customers of certain products, thereby impacting our sales and eroding our financial performance. Changing interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability is directly affected by fluctuating interest rates. While we monitor the interest rate environment and have previously employed hedging strategies to mitigate such impact, our financial results could be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Our spread-based insurance and annuity business is subject to several inherent risks arising from movements in interest rates, especially if we fail to anticipate or respond to such movements. First, interest rate changes can cause compression of our net spread between interest earned on investments and interest credited to customer deposits. Our ability to adjust for such a compression is limited by the guaranteed minimum rates that we must credit to policyholders on certain products, as well as the terms on most of our other products that limit reductions in the crediting rates to pre- 27 established intervals. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 41 percent of our insurance liabilities were subject to interest rates that may be reset annually; 46 percent had a fixed explicit interest rate for the duration of the contract; 9 percent had credited rates that approximate the income we earn; and the remainder had no explicit interest rates. Second, if interest rate changes produce an unanticipated increase in surrenders of our spread-based products, we may be forced to sell invested assets at a loss in order to fund such surrenders. Third, the profits from many non-spread-based insurance products, such as long-term care policies, can be adversely affected when interest rates decline because we may be unable to reinvest the cash from premiums received at the interest rates anticipated when we sold the policies. Finally, changes in interest rates can have significant effects on the performance of our structured securities portfolio, including collateralized mortgage obligations, as a result of changes in the prepayment rate of the loans underlying such securities. We follow asset/liability strategies that are designed to mitigate the effects of interest rate changes on our profitability but do not currently employ derivative instruments for this purpose. We may not be successful in implementing these strategies and achieving adequate investment spreads. We use computer models to simulate our cash flows expected from existing business under various interest rate scenarios. These simulations help us measure the potential gain or loss in fair value of our interest-sensitive financial instruments. With such estimates, we seek to manage the relationship between the duration of our assets and the expected duration of our liabilities. When the estimated durations of assets and liabilities are similar, exposure to interest rate risk is minimized because a change in the value of assets should be largely offset by a change in the value of liabilities. At December 31, 2005, the duration of our fixed maturity investments (as modified to reflect prepayments and potential calls) was approximately 6.6 years, and the duration of our insurance liabilities was approximately 7.3 years. We estimate that our fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, net of corresponding changes in insurance acquisition costs, would decline in fair value by approximately $685 million if interest rates were to increase by 10 percent from rates as of December 31, 2005. This compares to a decline in fair value of $630 million based on amounts and rates at December 31, 2004. The calculations involved in our computer simulations incorporate numerous assumptions, require significant estimates and assume an immediate change in interest rates without any management reaction to such change. Consequently, potential changes in the values of our financial instruments indicated by the simulations will likely be different from the actual changes experienced under given interest rate scenarios, and the differences may be material. Because we actively manage our investments and liabilities, our net exposure to interest rates can vary over time. Volatility in the securities markets, and other economic factors, may adversely affect our business, particularly our sales of certain life insurance products and annuities. Fluctuations in the securities markets and other economic factors may adversely affect sales and/or policy surrenders of our annuities and life insurance policies. For example, volatility in the equity markets may deter potential purchasers from investing in equity-indexed annuities and may cause current policyholders to surrender their policies for the cash value or to reduce their investments. In addition, significant or unusual volatility in the general level of interest rates could negatively impact sales and/or lapse rates on certain types of insurance products. We face risk with respect to our reinsurance agreements. We transfer exposure to certain risks to others through reinsurance arrangements. Under these arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of our losses and expenses associated with reported and unreported claims in exchange for a portion of policy premiums. The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and may vary significantly. As of December 31, 2005, our reinsurance receivables totaled $887.5 million. Our ceded life insurance inforce totaled $18.0 billion. Our eight largest reinsurers accounted for 86 percent of our ceded life insurance inforce. We face credit risk with respect to reinsurance. When we obtain reinsurance, we are still liable for those transferred risks if the reinsurer cannot meet its obligations. Therefore, the inability of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations may require us to increase liabilities, thereby reducing our net income and shareholders' equity. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, which limits our operating flexibility and could result in our insurance subsidiaries being placed under regulatory control or otherwise negatively impact our financial results. Our insurance business is subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to state insurance laws that establish supervisory agencies. Such agencies have broad administrative powers including: granting and revoking licenses to transact business; regulating sales and other practices; approving premium rate increases; licensing agents; approving policy forms; setting reserve and solvency requirements; determining the form and content of required statutory financial statements; limiting dividends; and prescribing the type and amount of investments insurers can make. The regulations issued by state insurance agencies can be complex and subject to differing interpretations. If a state insurance regulatory agency determines that one of our insurance company subsidiaries is not in compliance with applicable regulations, the subsidiary is subject to various potential administrative remedies 28 including, without limitation, monetary penalties, restrictions on the subsidiary's ability to do business in that state and a return of a portion of policyholder premiums. In addition, regulatory action or investigations could cause us to suffer significant reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During its bankruptcy period and throughout most of 2003, our predecessor operated under heightened scrutiny from state insurance regulators and under certain consent orders, thereby restricting the ability of its insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or other amounts to any non-insurance company parent without prior approval. Our emergence from bankruptcy in 2003 and the completion of our capital restructuring in 2004 and 2005 reduced the level of scrutiny from our state insurance regulators; however, we cannot be assured that regulators will not seek to assert greater supervision and control over our insurance subsidiaries' businesses and financial affairs in the future. If our financial condition were to deteriorate, we may be required to enter into similar orders in the future. Our insurance subsidiaries are also subject to risk-based capital requirements. These requirements were designed to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks associated with asset quality, mortality and morbidity, asset and liability matching and other business factors. The requirements are used by states as an early warning tool to discover potential weakly-capitalized companies for the purpose of initiating regulatory action. Generally, if an insurer's risk-based capital falls below specified levels, the insurer would be subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the magnitude of the deficiency. The 2005 statutory annual statements filed with the state insurance regulators of each of our insurance subsidiaries reflected total adjusted capital in excess of the levels subjecting the subsidiaries to any regulatory action. However, the risk-based capital ratio of Conseco Senior, which has experienced losses on its long-term care business in our Other Business in Run-off segment, was near the level at which it would have been required to submit a comprehensive plan to insurance regulators proposing corrective actions aimed at improving its capital position. We contributed $24.9 million to the capital and surplus of Conseco Senior in 2005. Our insurance subsidiaries may be required to pay assessments to fund policyholder losses or liabilities and this may negatively impact our financial results. The solvency or guaranty laws of most states in which an insurance company does business may require that company to pay assessments up to certain prescribed limits to fund policyholder losses or liabilities of other insurance companies that become insolvent. Insolvencies of insurance companies increase the possibility that these assessments may be required. These assessments may be deferred or forgiven under most guaranty laws if they would threaten an insurer's financial strength and, in certain instances, may be offset against future premium taxes. We cannot estimate the likelihood and amount of future assessments. Although past assessments have not been material, if there were a number of large insolvencies, future assessments could be material and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Litigation and regulatory investigations are inherent in our business and may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. Insurance companies historically have been subject to substantial litigation resulting from claims, disputes and other matters. In addition to the traditional policy claims associated with their businesses, insurance companies typically face policyholder suits and class action suits. We also face significant risks related to regulatory investigations and actions. The litigation and regulatory investigations we are, have been, or may become subject to include matters related to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, claim payments and procedures, product design, product disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees on products and recommending unsuitable products to customers. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include matters that are specific to us, as well as matters faced by other insurance companies. State insurance departments focus on sales practices and product issues in their market conduct examinations. Negotiated settlements of class action and other lawsuits have had a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of insurance companies. We are, in the ordinary course of our business, a plaintiff or defendant in actions arising out of our insurance business, including class actions and reinsurance disputes, and, from time to time, we are also involved in various governmental and administrative proceedings and investigations and inquiries such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state, federal and other authorities. The ultimate outcome of these lawsuits and investigations, however, cannot be predicted with certainty. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of liabilities we have established and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We could also suffer significant reputational harm as a result of such litigation, regulatory action or investigation which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Because our insurance subsidiaries were not part of the bankruptcy proceedings of our predecessor company and some of its non-insurance subsidiaries, those 29 proceedings did not result in the discharge of any claims, including claims asserted in litigation, against our insurance subsidiaries. Competition from companies that have greater market share, higher ratings and greater financial resources may impair our ability to retain existing customers and sales representatives, attract new customers and sales representatives and maintain or improve our financial results. The supplemental health insurance, annuity and individual life insurance markets are highly competitive. Competitors include other life and accident and health insurers, commercial banks, thrifts, mutual funds and broker-dealers. Our principal competitors vary by product line. Our main competitors for agent sold long-term care insurance products include Genworth Financial, John Hancock Financial Services and MetLife. Our main competitors for agent sold Medicare supplement insurance products include United HealthCare, Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans, Mutual of Omaha and United American. In some of our product lines, such as life insurance and fixed annuities, we have a relatively small market share. Even in some of the lines in which we are one of the top five writers, our market share is relatively small. For example, while our Bankers Life segment ranked fourth in annualized premiums of individual long-term care insurance in 2005 with a market share of approximately 9 percent, the top three writers of individual long-term care insurance had annualized premiums with a combined market share of approximately 54 percent during the period. In addition, while our Bankers Life segment was ranked second in annualized premiums of individual Medicare supplement insurance in 2005 with a market share of approximately 26 percent, the top writer of individual Medicare supplement insurance had annualized premiums with a market share of approximately 38 percent during the period. Virtually all of our major competitors have higher financial strength ratings than we do. Many of our competitors are larger companies that have greater capital, technological and marketing resources and have access to capital at a lower cost. Recent industry consolidation, including business combinations among insurance and other financial services companies, has resulted in larger competitors with even greater financial resources. Furthermore, changes in federal law have narrowed the historical separation between banks and insurance companies, enabling traditional banking institutions to enter the insurance and annuity markets and further increase competition. This increased competition may harm our ability to maintain or improve our profitability. In addition, because the actual cost of products is unknown when they are sold, we are subject to competitors who may sell a product at a price that does not cover its actual cost. Accordingly, if we do not also lower our prices for similar products, we may lose market share to these competitors. If we lower our prices to maintain market share, our profitability will decline. We must attract and retain sales representatives to sell our insurance and annuity products. Strong competition exists among insurance and financial services companies for sales representatives. We compete for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, financial strength ratings, support services, compensation and product features. Our competitiveness for such agents also depends upon the relationships we develop with these agents. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of sales representatives to sell our products, our ability to compete and our revenues and profitability would suffer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 