Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition from companies with greater brand recognition and resources. The digital audio, digital imaging, consumer electronics, and entertainment markets are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Our principal competitor is Dolby Laboratories, Inc., who competes with us in most of our markets. We also compete with other companies offering: · digital audio technology incorporated into consumer electronics products and entertainment mediums, including Coding Technologies, Fraunhofer Institut Integrierte Schaltungen, Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. (Philips), Meridian Audio Limited, Microsoft Corporation, Sony Corporation, and Thomson; · products for cinema markets, such as Smart Devices, Inc., Ultra Stereo Labs, Inc., Eastman Kodak Company, Screenvision Cinema Network LLC, National CineMedia LLC, and Unique Digital Ltd.; · digital image processing, enhancement and restoration services, including Ascent Media Group, EFILM LLC, Imax Corporation, Laser Pacific Media Corporation, Modern Video Film, Inc., Sunset Digital, Technicolor Media Services, and Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc.; and · products for image processing including da Vinci Systems, LLC, Digital Vision AB, Mathematical Technologies, Inc., Pixel Farm Ltd., Snell and Wilcox, Teranex Incorporated, and The Foundry Visionmongers Ltd. Many of our current and potential competitors, including Dolby, enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: · greater name recognition; · a longer operating history; · more developed distribution channels and deeper relationships with our common customer base; · a more extensive customer base; · digital technologies that provide features that ours do not; 22 · broader product and service offerings; · greater resources for competitive activities, such as research and development, strategic acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, sales and marketing, and lobbying industry and government standards; and · more technicians and engineers. As a result, these current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. In addition to the competitive advantages described above, Dolby also enjoys other unique competitive strengths relative to us. For example, it introduced multi-channel audio technology before we did. It has a larger base of installed movie theaters for its cinema playback equipment. Its technology has been incorporated in significantly more DVD-Video films than our technology. It has also achieved mandatory standard status in product categories that DTS has not, including DVD-Video and DVD-Audio Recordable, for its stereo technology and terrestrial digital television broadcasts in the United States. As a result of these factors, Dolby has a competitive advantage in selling its digital multi-channel audio technology to consumer electronics products manufacturers. Sony Corporation is both a competitor and a significant customer in most of our markets. If Sony decides to eliminate the use of our technology in its products or to compete with us more aggressively in our markets, the revenues that we derive from Sony would be lower than expected. Current and future governmental and industry standards may significantly limit our business opportunities. Technology standards are important in the audio and video industry as they help to assure compatibility across a system or series of products. Generally, standards adoption occurs on either a mandatory basis, requiring a particular technology to be available in a particular product or medium, or an optional basis, meaning that a particular technology may be, but is not required to be, utilized. For example, both our digital multi-channel audio technology and Dolby’s have optional status in Standard and High-Definition DVD and Blu-ray. In the emerging standards for high definition-DVD and Blu-ray, both DTS and Dolby technologies have been selected as mandatory standards for two-channel output. However, if either or both of these standards are re-examined or a new standard is developed, we may not be included as mandatory in any such new or revised standard. Various national governments have adopted or are in the process of adopting standards for all digital television broadcasts, including cable, satellite, and terrestrial. In the United States, Dolby’s audio technology has been selected as the sole, mandatory audio standard for terrestrial digital television broadcasts. As a result, the audio for all digital terrestrial television broadcasts in the United States must include Dolby’s technology and must exclude any other format, including ours. We do not know whether this standard will be reopened or amended. If it is not, our audio technology may never be included in that standard. Certain large and developing markets, such as China, have not fully developed their digital television standards. Our technology may or may not ultimately be included in these standards. As new technologies and entertainment media emerge, new standards relating to these technologies or media may develop. New standards may also emerge in existing markets that are currently characterized by competing formats, such as the market for personal computers. We may not be successful in our efforts to include our technology in any such standards. 23 We may not be able to evolve our technology, products, and services or develop new technology, products, and services that are acceptable to our customers or the changing market. The market for our technology, products, and services is characterized by: · rapid technological change; · new and improved product introductions; · changing customer demands; · evolving industry standards; and · product obsolescence. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing technology, products, and services and to develop acceptable new technology, products, and services on a timely basis. The development of enhanced and new technology, products, and services is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly-skilled engineering and development personnel, and the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to identify, develop, market, or support new or enhanced technology, products, or services on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, our new technology, products, and services may never gain market acceptance, and we may not be able to respond effectively to evolving consumer demands, technological changes, product announcements by competitors, or emerging industry standards. For example, we may not be able to effectively address concerns in the film and music industries relating to piracy in our current or future products. Any failure to respond to these changes or concerns would likely prevent our technology, products, and services from gaining market acceptance or maintaining market share. Declining retail prices for consumer electronics products or video content could force us to lower the license or other fees we charge our customers. The market for consumer electronics products is intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer electronics products that include our DTS audio technology, such as DVD players and home theater systems, have decreased significantly and we expect prices to continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. Declining prices for consumer electronics products could create downward pressure on the licensing fees we currently charge our customers who integrate our technology into the consumer electronics products that they sell and distribute. Most of the consumer electronics products that include our audio technology also include Dolby’s multi-channel audio. As a result of pricing pressure, consumer electronics products manufacturers could decide to exclude our DTS audio technology from their products altogether. The market for consumer video products is also intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer video products that have been processed, enhanced or restored by us, such as movies, concerts or animated content released on DVD or other media, have experienced price pressure and we expect this price pressure to continue for the foreseeable future. Declining prices for such video products could create downward pressure on the fees we currently charge our customers for the image processing, enhancement and restoration services we provide. If the motion picture studios, content owners, producers or distributors were to believe that the existing image quality is satisfactory or that the pricing for our services is too high, they could decide to not use our services altogether. 24 If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be harmed. Protection of our intellectual property is critical to our success. Patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws and confidentiality and other contractual provisions afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. We face numerous risks in protecting our intellectual property rights, including the following: · our patents may be challenged or invalidated by our competitors; · our pending patent applications may not issue, or, if issued, may not provide meaningful protection for related products or proprietary rights; · we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees, consultants, and advisors; · we may not be able to practice our trade secrets as a result of patent protection afforded a third-party for such product, technique or processes; · the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate in foreign countries; · our competitors may produce competitive products or services that do not unlawfully infringe upon our intellectual property rights; and · we may be unable to successfully identify or prosecute unauthorized uses of our technology. As a result, our means of protecting our intellectual property rights and brands may not be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, third parties may violate, or attempt to violate, our intellectual property rights. Infringement claims and lawsuits would likely be expensive to resolve and would require management’s time and resources. In addition, we have not sought, and do not intend to seek, patent and other intellectual property protections in all foreign countries. In countries where we do not have such protection, products incorporating our technology may be lawfully produced and sold without a license. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. Companies that participate in the digital audio, digital image processing, consumer electronics, and entertainment industries hold a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights, and are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Intellectual property disputes frequently involve highly complex and costly scientific matters, and each party generally has the right to seek a trial by jury which adds additional costs and uncertainty. Accordingly, intellectual property disputes, with or without merit, could be costly and time consuming to litigate or settle, and could divert management’s attention from executing our business plan. In addition, our technology and products may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If we were unable to obtain any necessary license following a determination of infringement or an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we may need to redesign some of our products to avoid infringing a third party’s rights and could be required to temporarily or permanently discontinue licensing our products. Our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of required compliance with the recently adopted European Union Directives on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment. In February 2003, the European Union enacted Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, known as the WEEE Directive. The WEEE Directive requires producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment to be financially responsible for the future disposal costs of 25 this equipment. Our cinema products may fall within the scope of this Directive and as such we may incur some financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of both new products sold, and products already sold prior to the WEEE Directive’s enforcement date, to customers within the European Union. The Directive potentially increases our financial liabilities by requiring producers to adopt new approaches for improving sustainable product design and for encouraging recycling or re-use at the end of the product’s life. At the same time, the European Union also enacted Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive. This Directive restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including mercury, lead, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and certain flame retardants, used in the construction of component parts of electrical and electronic equipment. We may need to change our manufacturing processes, and to redesign or reformulate products regulated under the RoHS Directive to eliminate these hazardous substances in our products, in order to be able to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union. For some products, substituting certain components containing regulated hazardous substances may be more difficult or costly, and the additional redesign efforts could result in production delays. Individual European Union member states are required to transpose the Directives into national legislation. Although not all European Union member states have enacted legislation to implement these two directives, we continue to review the applicability and impact of both directives on the sale of our cinema products within the European Union. We may incur increased manufacturing costs or production delays to comply with future legislation which implements these directives, but we cannot currently estimate the extent of such increased costs or production delays. However, to the extent that such cost increases or delays are substantial, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are aware of similar legislation which may be enacted in other countries, such as China, and possible new federal and state legislation in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could significantly increase our operating costs and adversely affect our operating results. The WEEE Directive and the RoHS Directive are aimed mainly at mass market consumer electronics and thus, will impact many of our customers who license our technology and pay us royalties upon the manufacture of electronic products. If the directives result in fewer licensed consumer electronics products being sold, whether due to price increases, production delays, compromised product performance due to reformulation or redesign, or for other reasons, then we will receive less revenue in royalties. If the directives materially impair or inhibit such sales, the reduction in licensing revenue could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to maintain and increase the amount of entertainment content released with DTS audio soundtracks, demand for the technology, products, and services that we offer to consumer electronics products manufacturers may significantly decline. We expect to derive a significant percentage of our revenues from the technology, products, and services that we offer to manufacturers of consumer electronics products. To date, the most significant driver for the use of our technology in the home theater market has been the release of major movie titles with DTS audio soundtracks. We also believe that demand for our DTS audio technology in emerging markets for multi-channel audio, including homes, cars, personal computers, and video games and consoles, will be based on the number, quality, and popularity of the audio DVDs, computer software programs, and video games released with DTS audio soundtracks. Although we have existing relationships with many leading providers of movie, music, computer, and video game content, we do not have contracts that require any of these parties to develop and release content with DTS audio soundtracks. In addition, we may not be successful in maintaining existing relationships or developing relationships with other existing providers or new market entrants that provide content. As a result, we cannot assure you that a 26 significant amount of content in movies, audio DVDs, computer software programs, video games, or other entertainment mediums will be released with DTS audio soundtracks. If the amount, variety, and popularity of entertainment content released with DTS audio soundtracks do not increase, consumer electronics products manufacturers that pay us per-unit licensing fees may discontinue offering DTS playback capabilities in the consumer electronics products that they sell. If our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting for future year-ends as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our shares. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring all public companies, including us, to include a report by management on internal control over financial reporting in all annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must attest to and report on our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. While we conduct rigorous reviews of our internal control over financial reporting in order to comply with the Section 404 requirements, our independent registered public accounting firm may interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from us, or our independent registered public accounting firm or management may not be satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which these controls are documented, executed or reviewed. In addition, many uncertainties remain regarding the requirements for auditor attestation, and guidance provided by the public accounting profession has changed frequently and materially to date and may continue to change such that we may not be able to comply with these new requirements. Further, the demand for competent audit resources has grown dramatically as a result of the requirements of Section 404, and such demand may exceed available supply. In addition, in January 2005, we acquired Lowry Digital Images, Inc., or LDI, a privately held company with limited financial resources that may not have implemented sufficient internal control over financial reporting. We may in the future make additional acquisitions which may be significant to our operations either individually or in the aggregate. We may face significant challenges in implementing the required processes and procedures in the acquired operations of LDI or any other businesses that we may acquire. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse report or a disclaimer on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Management may also identify material weaknesses which would cause management to conclude internal control over financial reporting is not effective. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We have limited experience in licensing, re-mixing, marketing, and directly selling multi-channel audio content. Although we have established relationships with a number of artists and music labels, we do not have any contractual agreements that require artists or music labels to provide us with music content to re-mix and release in our proprietary DTS audio format. Music companies may in the future be unwilling to license titles from their music catalogs to us. In addition, our audio content competes with other multi-channel formats, including Super Audio CD, which is a format developed jointly by Philips and Sony Corporation. As a result, we may have difficulty in obtaining rights to release a significant amount of audio content, and any content that we do release may not be commercially successful. 27 We have limited experience in image processing, enhancement and restoration. Although we have established relationships with a number of motion picture studios, content owners, producers and distributors, we do not have any contractual agreements that require them to provide us image content for processing. Further, the demand for image processing, enhancement and restoration of cinema, home video or broadcast television content may not materialize or accelerate as we anticipate, which would have a negative impact on our business. We have limited control over existing and potential customers’ and licensees’ decisions to include our technology in their product offerings. We are dependent on our customers and licensees—including consumer electronics products manufacturers, semiconductor manufacturers, movie theaters, producers and distributors of content for music, films, videos, and games—to incorporate our technology in their products, purchase our products and services, or release their content in our proprietary DTS audio format. Although we have contracts and license agreements with many of these companies, these agreements do not require any minimum purchase commitments, and are on a non-exclusive basis, and do not require incorporation or use of our technology, trademarks or services. Our customers, licensees and other manufacturers might not utilize our technology or services in the future. Our revenues from film producers and distributors and from the products and services that we offer to movie theaters would decline if the major U.S. film producers and distributors decrease or delay the number of films they release using DTS technology or services. Although all six major U.S. film producers and distributors are customers of ours, we generally do not have contractual arrangements that require them to use our DTS audio technology or our digital image services. Our cinema and digital images business depends on our having good relations with these film studios and other content owners. A deterioration in our relationship with any of these customers could cause them to stop using our DTS audio technology or our digital image enhancement services. Any significant decline or delay in the release of motion pictures with DTS audio soundtracks would decrease the demand for and revenues from the playback products and services that we offer to movie theaters. In addition, other motion picture studios, content owners, producers, and distributors throughout the world generally adopt and use the processes and the technologies used by the major U.S. film studios. Therefore, if the major U.S. motion picture studios, content owners, producers or distributors stop using our technology, we would not only lose the per-movie licensing fee we receive from these customers, but may also lose per-movie licensing fees from other film studios throughout the world. Furthermore, poor box-office performance caused by a weak film release calendar or declining consumer interest in the films being released could have a negative impact on the demand for the products and services we sell to the motion picture industry. If the movie industry adopts new digital cinema technology in place of current film technology, demand for our cinema products and services could decline. The movie theater industry may transition from film-based media to electronic-based, or digital, media. If this transition occurs, we may be unable to meaningfully respond with competitive product offerings. In addition, if the film industry broadly adopts digital cinema, our technology and current product and service offerings could be rendered obsolete. In such an event, demand by movie theaters for our playback systems, cinema processors, and systems for subtitling, captioning, and descriptive narration as well as film licensing revenue would decline. 28 The movie theater industry has suffered and may continue to suffer from an oversupply of screens, which has affected and may continue to affect demand for the products and services we offer to movie theaters. Our cinema business depends in part on the construction of new screens and the renovation of existing theaters that install our DTS playback systems and cinema processors. In recent years, aggressive building of megaplexes by companies that operate movie theaters has generated significant competition and resulted in an oversupply of screens in some domestic and international markets. The resulting oversupply of screens led to significant declines in revenues per screen and, eventually, to an inability by many major film exhibitors to satisfy their financial obligations. Several major movie theater operators have reorganized through bankruptcy proceedings, and many movie theaters have closed. As a result, our playback systems and cinema processors that we previously sold to movie theaters that have reorganized and closed have been relocated to other theaters or have been available for resale in the secondary market to movie theaters that might otherwise have purchased these products directly from us. More recently, the industry has experienced a decline in movie theater attendance. If this decline were to continue, exhibitors could see a decline in revenue per screen and, potentially, an inability to satisfy their financial obligations resulting in the closure of screens. If movie theater operators decide to close a significant number of screens in the future or cut their capital spending, demand for our playback systems and cinema processors will decline. We are dependent on our management team and key technical employees, and the loss of any of them could harm our business. Our success depends, in part, upon the continued availability and contributions of our management team, particularly Jon Kirchner, our President and Chief Executive Officer, W. Paul Smith, our Senior Vice President, Research and Development, and John Lowry, our Chief Technologist of DTS Digital Images who became an employee upon our acquisition of DTS DI. We also rely on the skills and talents of our engineering and technical personnel because of the complexity of our products and services. Several of our key engineers have been instrumental in the development of our technology. Important factors that could cause the loss of key personnel include: · our existing employment agreements with the members of our management team allow such persons to terminate their employment with us at any time; · we do not have employment agreements with a majority of our key engineering and technical personnel; · significant portions of the stock options held by the members of our management team are vested; and · stock options held by certain executive officers provide for accelerated vesting in the event of a sale or change of control of our company. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract qualified personnel in a timely manner could slow our technology and product development and harm our ability to execute our business plan. We do not generally carry key-man life insurance on any of our employees, with the exception that we are the beneficiary of a $10 million key-man life insurance policy for John Lowry. We have a limited operating history in many of our key markets. Although the first movie with a DTS audio soundtrack was released in 1993, we did not enter the home theater market until 1996, and our technology has only recently been incorporated into other consumer electronics markets, such as car audio, personal computers, video games and consoles, portable electronics devices, and digital satellite and cable broadcast products. In addition, while we have completed over 100 digital image processing, enhancement and restoration film projects, it is only recently that a large 29 number of these projects have been completed. As a result, the demand for our technology, products, and services and the income potential of these businesses are unproven. In addition, because the market for digital audio technology and image services is relatively new and rapidly evolving, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business. Before investing in our common stock, you should consider the risks, uncertainties, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as ours. We may not be able to successfully address any or all of these risks. Our technology and products are complex and may contain errors that could cause us to lose customers, damage our reputation, or incur substantial costs. Our technology or products could contain errors that could cause our products or technology to operate improperly and could cause unintended consequences. If our products or technology contain errors we could be required to replace them, and if any such errors cause unintended consequences we could face claims for product liability. Although we generally attempt to contractually limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages, if these contract provisions are not enforced or are unenforceable for any reason, or if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited, we could incur substantial costs in defending and/or settling product liability claims. Because we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability. Although we have been in business since 1990, we have only achieved profits from our business operations since the third quarter of 2001. We expect our operating expenses to increase as we, among other things: · expand our domestic and international sales and marketing activities; · acquire businesses or technologies and integrate them into our existing organization; · increase our research and development efforts to advance our existing technology, products, and services and develop new technology, products, and services; · hire additional personnel, including engineers and other technical staff; · upgrade our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; and · continue to assume the responsibilities of being a public company. As a result, we will need to grow our revenues in order to maintain and increase our profitability. In addition, we may fail to accurately estimate and assess our increased operating expenses as we grow. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international operations. We market and sell our products and services outside the United States, and currently have employees located in Canada, China, England, France, Japan, Hong Kong, Italy, Northern Ireland, and Spain. Many of our customers and licensees are located outside the United States. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international sales. We face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including: · unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; · tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargos, and other trade barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; 30 · dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; · longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · less effective and less predictable protection of intellectual property; · changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region, particularly in emerging markets; · fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange; and · potentially adverse tax consequences. Such factors could cause our future international sales to decline. Our business practices in international markets are also subject to the requirements of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If any of our employees is found to have violated these requirements, we could be subject to significant fines and other penalties. Our international revenue is mostly denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our technology, products, and services more expensive for international customers, which could cause them to decrease their purchases from us. Expenses for our subsidiaries are denominated in their respective local currencies. Significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. We face risks in expanding our business operations in China. One of our key strategies is to expand our business operations in China. However, we may be unsuccessful in implementing this strategy as planned or at all. Factors that could inhibit our successful expansion into China include its historically poor recognition of intellectual property rights and poor performance in stopping counterfeiting and piracy activity. If we are unable to successfully stop unauthorized use of our intellectual property and assure compliance by our Chinese licensees, we could experience increased operational and enforcement costs both inside and outside China. Even if we are successful in expanding into China, we may be greatly impacted by the political, economic, and military conditions in China, Taiwan, North Korea, and South Korea. These countries have periodically conducted military exercises in or near the other’s territorial waters and airspace. Such disputes may continue or escalate, resulting in economic embargos, disruptions in shipping, or even military hostilities. This could severely harm our business by interrupting or delaying production or shipment of our products or products that incorporate our technology. We depend on several suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors for some of our products, and the loss of any of these suppliers, manufacturers, or distributors could harm our business. We purchase a small number of parts from sole-source suppliers. In addition, our professional audio encoding devices and movie theater playback systems are manufactured according to our specifications by single third-party manufacturers. Because we have no direct control over these third-party suppliers and manufacturers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these third parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers or manufacturers are incapable of or unwilling to deliver the necessary parts or products, we may be unable to redesign our technology to work without such parts or find alternative suppliers or manufacturers. In such events, we could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs, or quality control problems. 31 In addition, we have entered into agreements with three companies to serve as our sole distributors for our DTS Entertainment products in the United States and Canada, Europe and Japan. We have no direct control over these distributors and any problems with their performance may take time to identify and/or remedy, and any remedial measures that we take may be unsuccessful. In addition, if any of these distributors were to go out of business, as one of our previous distributors did, or otherwise becomes incapable of continuing as our distributor, we could experience delays in distributing our DTS Entertainment products to the retail market, loss of inventory, and loss of revenue. We rely on the accuracy of our customers’ manufacturing reports for reporting and collecting our revenues, and if these reports are untimely or incorrect, our revenues could be delayed or inaccurately reported. A significant percentage of our revenues are generated from our consumer electronics products manufacturer customers who license and incorporate our technology in their consumer electronics products. Under our existing arrangements, these customers pay us per-unit licensing fees based on the number of consumer electronics products manufactured that incorporate our technology. We rely on our customers to accurately report the number of units manufactured in collecting our license fees, preparing our financial reports, projections, budgets, and directing our sales and product development efforts. Most of our license agreements permit us to audit our customers, but audits are generally expensive and time consuming and could harm our customer relationships. If any of our customer reports understate the number of products they manufacture, we may not collect and recognize revenues to which we are entitled. A prolonged economic downturn could materially harm our business. Negative trends in the general economy, including trends resulting from actual or threatened military action by the United States and threats of terrorist attacks on the United States and abroad, could cause a decrease in consumer spending on entertainment in general. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general may affect the demand for consumer electronics products that incorporate our digital audio technology, audio DVDs that we produce and distribute through our DTS Entertainment label, and demand by film studios and movie theaters for our cinema products and services. We may not successfully address problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. We acquired DTS DI in January 2005, and we expect to consider additional opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products, and businesses that could enhance our technical capabilities, complement our current products and services, or expand the breadth of our markets. We have a limited history of acquiring and integrating businesses. Acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: · problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products, or business operations; · significant future charges relating to in-process research and development and the amortization of intangible assets; · significant amount of goodwill that is not amortizable and is subject to annual impairment review; · problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls, and policies; · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition, including accounting charges, capital expenditures, and transaction expenses; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. 32 If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted, and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted. We may have difficulty managing any growth that we might experience. We expect to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations and the number of our employees. If this growth continues, it will place a significant strain on our management team and on our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. Our future success will depend in part on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. This will require our management to: · hire and train additional personnel in the United States and internationally; · implement and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; · maintain our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the revenues we generate; · manage multiple concurrent development projects; and · manage operations in multiple time zones with different cultures and languages. Any failure to successfully manage our growth could distract management’s attention, and result in our failure to execute our business plan. For instance, our acquisition of DTS DI has required significant time and attention from our management team. Any future growth could cause similar management challenges or create distractions. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results. We have historically experienced moderate seasonality in our business due to our business mix and the nature of our products. In our consumer business, consumer electronics manufacturing activities are generally lowest in the first calendar quarter of each year, and increase progressively throughout the remainder of the year. Manufacturing output is generally strongest in the third and fourth quarters as our technology licensees increase manufacturing to prepare for the holiday buying season. Since recognition of revenues in our consumer business generally lags manufacturing activity by one quarter, our revenues and earnings from the consumer business are generally lowest in the second quarter. Film licensing revenues are generally strongest in the second and fourth quarters due to the abundance of movies typically released during the summer and year-end holiday seasons. The introduction of new products and inclusion of our technologies in new and rapidly growing markets can distort the moderate seasonality described above. Our revenues may continue to be subject to seasonal fluctuations in the future. Unanticipated fluctuations in seasonality could cause us to miss our earnings projections which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we actively engage in intellectual property compliance and enforcement activities focused on identifying third parties who have either incorporated our technology, trademarks, or know-how without a license or who have underreported to us the amount of royalties owed under license agreements with us. As a result of these activities, from time to time, we recognize royalty revenues that relate to consumer electronics manufacturing activities from prior periods. These royalty recoveries may cause revenues to be higher than expected during a particular reporting period and may not recur in future reporting periods. Such fluctuations in our revenues and operating results may cause declines in our stock price. Accounting for employee stock options using the fair value method will reduce our net income. There has been ongoing public debate whether stock options granted to employees should be treated as compensation expense and, if so, how to properly value such charges. Currently, we account for options 33 using the intrinsic value method, which results in no compensation expense, since we grant employee options with exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock at the time of grant. If, however, we had used the fair value method of accounting for stock options granted to employees using a Black-Scholes option valuation formula, our net income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, would have been reduced by $5.4 million, from $7.9 million to $2.5 million for the year. When we adopt SFAS No. 132R, “Share-Based Payment’’, in the first quarter of 2006, we will have on-going accounting charges significantly greater than those we would have recorded under our current method of accounting for stock options, which will have a material adverse affect on our operating results. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; · announcements of technological innovations or technology standards; · announcements of significant contracts by us or our competitors; · changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; · developments with respect to intellectual property rights; · the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · the commencement of or our involvement in litigation; · our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; · conditions and trends in technology industries; · changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; · the trading volume of our common stock; · changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; and · general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq National Market and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of technology companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid. As of December 31, 2005, we had 17,472,543 shares of common stock outstanding. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common shares may be less liquid than the common shares of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common shares may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. 34 Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · acceptance of, and demand for, our products and technology; · the costs of developing new products or technology; · the extent to which we invest in new technology and research and development projects; · the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; and · the costs associated with our expansion, if any. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. This may materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control and could also limit the market price of our stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our Board of Directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: · authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; · provide for a classified Board of Directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; · prohibit stockholders from filling board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; and · require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Restated Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our Board or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current Board, including delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 35 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 