Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We do not expect sales of Standard Definition DVD players to sustain their past growth rates. Our business is highly dependent on the growth in next generation optical disc products, and we do not have near-term visibility into the precise timing of this expected growth or how smooth or linear this growth will be. To the extent that sales of Standard Definition DVD players and home theater systems level off or decline, consumer adoption of next generation optical disc products fails to materialize or does not materialize as quickly as we expect, or alternative technologies in which we do not participate replace DVDs as a dominant medium for consumer video entertainment, our business will be adversely affected. Past growth in our business has been due in large part to the rapid growth in sales of Standard Definition DVD players and home theater systems incorporating our technologies. As the markets for Standard Definition DVD players mature, we expect sales of Standard Definition DVD players to decline. To the extent that sales of Standard Definition DVD players and home theater systems level off or decline, our business will be adversely affected. Additionally, the release and consumer adoption of next-generation optical disc players has only just begun. While Toshiba Corporation recently announced that it has decided to discontinue sales and marketing of HD-DVD players, this is a very recent development and there currently remains available at retail two competing formats for high-definition optical discs and consumers may not react favorably to having to make a choice between formats. Even after the removal of HD-DVD hardware from retail outlets, there will still be pre-existing hardware and content in this format and there is a risk of consumer confusion and frustration over the inability of a given format player to play a disc in the competing format. The slow adoption by consumers of next-generation optical disc players, as well as the inability of Standard Definition DVD players to sustain their past growth rates, could adversely affect our business, as revenue and earnings derived from these new players and associated home theater system sales may not fully replace the anticipated decline in revenue and earnings associated with Standard Definition DVD players and home theater systems. Even with the recent resolution of the competing disc format conflict, the rate of consumer adoption and ultimate penetration of next-generation optical disc players is uncertain and may be slower than past growth rates of Standard Definition DVD players. In addition, if new technologies are developed for use with Standard Definition DVDs or new technologies, including direct downloads of content, are developed or deployed that substantially compete with or replace Standard Definition DVDs as a dominant medium for consumer video entertainment, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. An economic downturn could materially harm our business. Negative trends in the general economy, including trends resulting from an actual or perceived recession, actual or threatened military action by the United States and threats of terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, could cause a decrease in consumer spending, including entertainment generally. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general may affect the demand for consumer electronics products that incorporate our digital audio technology and demand by film studios and movie theaters for our cinema products and services. 20 The sale of our DTS Digital Cinema business or any failure to successfully manage and complete an undertaken sales transaction could adversely affect our business and operating results. In order to better address rapidly evolving markets, meet the needs of customers and increase stockholder value, we are proceeding with the sale of our DTS Digital Cinema business. In August 2007, in response to changing market conditions, including tightening in the credit markets and the resulting uncertainty, we reevaluated our sales strategy in an effort to maximize shareholder value, and we modified our sales approach to offer the assets of the Cinema and Digital Images businesses together or individually. The sales process may be costly. The sales process has not been completed on our ideal timeframe and might not be accomplished at all, although we believe it is probable that we will sell these businesses. The sales process could require significant time and attention from our management, finance, accounting and legal teams, which could disrupt our day-to-day operations and shift the allocation of these resources away from matters related to our core business. In addition, implementing any transaction would involve a number of operational, legal and, possibly, regulatory steps. Implementation could be costly, cause further disruption to our day-to-day operations, and result in the loss of customers and/or sales revenue, which could cause our business and operating results to suffer. Furthermore, implementation of a sale is a complicated process and there is a risk that we may not be successful in the execution of our sales strategy, which could cause our business to suffer and our stock price to decline. Our business and prospects depend on the strength of our brand, and if we do not maintain and strengthen our brand, our business will be materially harmed. Establishing, maintaining and strengthening our "DTS" brand is critical to our success. Our brand identity is key to maintaining and expanding our business and entering new markets. Our success depends in large part on our reputation for providing high quality products, services and technologies to the consumer electronics products industry and the entertainment industry. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully, our business and prospects may suffer. Moreover, we believe that the likelihood that our technologies will be adopted in industry standards depends, in part, upon the strength of our brand, because professional organizations and industry participants are more likely to incorporate technologies developed by a well-respected and well-known brand into standards. Maintaining and strengthening our brand will depend heavily on our ability to develop innovative technologies for the entertainment industry, to continue to provide high quality products and services, and manage brand transition in connection with the process of selling the businesses or assets that comprise our DTS Digital Cinema and Images businesses, which we may not do successfully. We may not be able to evolve our technology, products, and services or develop new technology, products, and services that are acceptable to our customers or the changing market. The market for our technology, products, and services is characterized by: •rapid technological change; •new and improved product introductions; •changing customer demands; •evolving industry standards; and •product obsolescence. Our future success depends on our ability to enhance our existing technology, products, and services and to develop acceptable new technology, products, and services on a timely basis. The development of enhanced and new technology, products, and services is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly-skilled engineering and development personnel, and 21 the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to identify, develop, market, or support new or enhanced technology, products, or services on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, our new technology, products, and services may never gain market acceptance, and we may not be able to respond effectively to evolving consumer demands, technological changes, product announcements by competitors, or emerging industry standards. For example, we may not be able to effectively address concerns in the film and music industries relating to piracy in our current or future products. Any failure to respond to these changes or concerns would likely prevent our technology, products, and services from gaining market acceptance or maintaining market share and could lead to our technology, products and services becoming obsolete. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be harmed. Protection of our intellectual property is critical to our success. Patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws and confidentiality and other contractual provisions afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. We face numerous risks in protecting our intellectual property rights, including the following: •our patents may be challenged or invalidated by our competitors; •our pending patent applications may not issue, or if issued, may not provide meaningful protection for related products or proprietary rights; •we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees, consultants, and advisors; •we may not be able to practice our trade secrets as a result of patent protection afforded a third-party for such product, technique or process; •the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate in foreign countries; •our competitors may produce competitive products or services that do not unlawfully infringe upon our intellectual property rights; •efforts to identify and prosecute unauthorized uses of our technology are time consuming, expensive, and divert resources from the operation of our business; and •we may be unable to successfully identify or prosecute unauthorized uses of our technology. As a result, our means of protecting our intellectual property rights and brands may not be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, third parties may violate, or attempt to violate, our intellectual property rights. Infringement claims and lawsuits would likely be expensive to resolve and would require management's time and resources. In addition, we have not sought, and do not intend to seek, patent and other intellectual property protections in all foreign countries. In countries where we do not have such protection, products incorporating our technology may be lawfully produced and sold without a license. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. Companies that participate in the digital audio, digital image processing, consumer electronics, and entertainment industries hold a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights, and are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Intellectual property disputes frequently involve highly complex and costly scientific matters, and each party generally has the right to seek a trial by jury which adds additional costs and uncertainty. Accordingly, intellectual property disputes, with or without merit, could be costly and time 22 consuming to litigate or settle, and could divert management's attention from executing our business plan. In addition, our technology and products may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If we were unable to obtain any necessary license following a determination of infringement or an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we may need to redesign some of our products to avoid infringing a third party's rights and could be required to temporarily or permanently discontinue licensing our products. We face intense competition. Many of our competitors have greater brand recognition and resources than we do. The digital audio, consumer electronics, digital imaging, cinema and entertainment markets are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Our principal competitor is Dolby Laboratories, Inc., who competes with us in most of our markets. We also compete with other companies offering: •digital audio technology incorporated into consumer electronics product and entertainment mediums, including Fraunhofer Institut Integrierte Schaltungen, Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. (Philips), Microsoft Corporation, Sony Corporation, Thomson and SRS Labs, Inc. •products for cinema markets, such as Smart Devices, Inc., Ultra Stereo Labs, Inc., Eastman Kodak Company, Screenvision Cinema Network LLC, National CineMedia LLC, Doremi Labs, Inc. and Unique Digital Ltd.; •digital image processing, enhancement and restoration services, including Ascent Media Group, EFILM LLC, Imax Corporation, Laser Pacific Media Corporation, Modern Video Film, Inc., Sunset Digital, Technicolor Media Services, and Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc. •products for image processing including da Vinci Systems, LLC, Digital Vision AB, Mathematical Technologies, Inc., Pixel Farm Ltd., Snell and Wilcox, Teranex Incorporated, and The Foundry Visionmongers Ltd. Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: •greater name recognition; •a longer operating history; •more developed distribution channels and deeper relationships with our common customer base; •a more extensive customer base; •digital technologies that provide features that ours do not; •broader product and service offerings; •greater resources for competitive activities, such as research and development, strategic acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, sales and marketing, and lobbying industry and government standards; •more technicians and engineers; and •greater technical support. As a result, these current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. 23 In addition to the competitive advantages described above, Dolby also enjoys other unique competitive strengths relative to us. For example, it introduced multi-channel audio technology before we did and has a larger base of installed movie theaters for its cinema playback equipment. Its technology has been incorporated in significantly more Standard Definition DVD than our technology. It has also achieved mandatory standard status in product categories that we have not, including Standard Definition DVD, for its stereo technology and terrestrial digital television broadcasts in the United States. It also currently has more depth in digital cinema. As a result of these factors, Dolby has a competitive advantage in selling its digital multi-channel audio technology to consumer electronics products manufacturers and in selling products and services designed for use in the digital cinema space. Sony Corporation is both a competitor and a significant customer in most of our markets. If Sony decides to eliminate the use of our technology in its products or to compete with us more aggressively in our markets, the revenues that we derive from Sony would be lower than expected. We have limited control over existing and potential customers' and licensees' decisions to include our technology in their product offerings. We are dependent on our customers and licensees—including consumer electronics product manufacturers, semiconductor manufacturers, movie theaters, producers and distributors of content for music, films, videos, and games and builders and integrators of digital cinema networks—to incorporate our technology in their products, purchase our products and services, or release their content in our proprietary DTS audio format. Although we have contracts and license agreements with many of these companies other than builders and integrators of digital cinema networks, these agreements do not require any minimum purchase commitments, are on a non-exclusive basis, and do not require incorporation or use of our technology, trademarks or services. Our customers, licensees and other manufacturers might not utilize our technology or services in the future. Our investments in auction rate securities may not provide us a liquid source of cash. As of December 31, 2007, we held approximately $29.5 million of auction-rate securities. Recently, there have been disruptions in the market for auction rate securities. While none of the auctions have failed related to securities held at December 31, 2007, we have had some auctions fail relating to auction rate securities purchased after December 31, 2007. In the event that we are unable to sell the underlying securities at or above our carrying value, these securities may not provide us a liquid source of cash in the future. If we are unable to maintain and increase the amount of entertainment content released with DTS audio soundtracks, demand for the technology, products, and services that we offer to consumer electronics product manufacturers may significantly decline. We expect to derive a significant percentage of our revenues from the technology, products, and services that we offer to manufacturers of consumer electronics products. To date, the most significant driver for the use of our technology in the home theater market has been the release of major movie titles with DTS audio soundtracks. We also believe that demand for our DTS audio technology in emerging markets for multi-channel audio, including homes, cars, personal computers, and video games and consoles, will be based on the number, quality, and popularity of the audio DVDs, computer software programs, and video games either released with DTS audio soundtracks or capable of being coded and played in DTS format. Although we have existing relationships with many leading providers of movie, music, computer, and video game content, we do not have contracts that require any of these parties to develop and release content with DTS audio soundtracks. In addition, we may not be successful in maintaining existing relationships or developing relationships with other existing providers or new market entrants that provide content. As a result, we cannot assure you that a significant 24 amount of content in movies, audio DVDs, computer software programs, video games, or other entertainment mediums will be released with DTS audio soundtracks. If the amount, variety, and popularity of entertainment content released with DTS audio soundtracks do not increase, consumer electronics products manufacturers that pay us per-unit licensing fees may discontinue offering DTS playback capabilities in the consumer electronics products that they sell. Declining retail prices for consumer electronics products or video content could force us to lower the license or other fees we charge our customers. The market for consumer electronics products is intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer electronics products that include our DTS audio technology, such as Standard Definition DVD players and home theater systems, have decreased significantly and we expect prices to continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. Declining prices for consumer electronics products could create downward pressure on the licensing fees we currently charge our customers who integrate our technology into the consumer electronics products that they sell and distribute. Most of the consumer electronics products that include our audio technology also include Dolby's multi- channel audio technology. As a result of pricing pressure, consumer electronics products manufacturers who manufacture products in which our audio technology is not a mandatory standard could decide to exclude our DTS audio technology from their products altogether. The market for consumer video products is also intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer video products have experienced price pressure and we expect this price pressure to continue for the foreseeable future. Declining retail prices for such video products could create downward pressure on the fees we charge our customers for the image processing, enhancement and restoration services we provide. If the motion picture studios, content owners, producers or distributors were to believe that the existing image quality is satisfactory or that the pricing for our services is too high, they could decide to not use our services altogether. Our licensing revenue depends in large part upon semiconductor manufacturers incorporating our technologies into integrated circuits, or ICs, for sale to our consumer electronics product licensees and if, for any reason, our technologies are not incorporated in these ICs or fewer ICs are sold that incorporate our technologies, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our licensing revenue from consumer electronics product manufacturers depends in large part upon the availability of ICs that implement our technologies. IC manufacturers incorporate our technologies into these ICs, which are then incorporated into consumer electronics products. We do not manufacture these ICs, but rather depend on IC manufacturers to develop, produce and then sell them to licensed consumer electronics product manufacturers. We do not control the IC manufacturers' decisions whether or not to incorporate our technologies into their ICs, and we do not control their product development or commercialization efforts. If these IC manufacturers are unable or unwilling, for any reason, to implement our technologies into their ICs, or if, for any reason, they sell fewer ICs incorporating our technologies, our operating results will be adversely affected. We rely on the accuracy of our customers' manufacturing reports for reporting and collecting our revenues, and if these reports are untimely or incorrect, our revenues could be delayed or inaccurately reported. A significant percentage of our revenues are generated from consumer electronics product manufacturers who license and incorporate our technology in their consumer electronics products. Under our existing arrangements, these customers pay us per-unit licensing fees based on the number of consumer electronics products manufactured that incorporate our technology. We rely on our customers to accurately report the number of units manufactured in collecting our license fees, preparing our financial reports, projections, budgets, and directing our sales and product development efforts. Most of our license agreements permit us to audit our customers, but audits are generally 25 expensive, time consuming, difficult to manage effectively, dependent in large part on the cooperation of our licensees and the quality of the records they keep, and could harm our customer relationships. If any of our customer reports understate the number of products they manufacture, we may not collect and recognize revenues to which we are entitled. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future, which may impact profitability. We expect our operating expenses to increase as we, among other things: •expand our domestic and international sales and marketing activities; •proceed with the sale of the businesses or assets that comprise our DTS Digital Cinema business; •continue developing our international operations; •adopt a more customer-focused business model which is expected to entail additional hiring; •acquire businesses or technologies and integrate them into our existing organization; •increase our research and development efforts to advance our existing technology, products, and services and develop new technology, products, and services; •hire additional personnel, including engineers and other technical staff; •upgrade our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; and •continue to assume the responsibilities of being a public company. As a result, we will need to grow our revenues and manage our costs in order to positively impact profitability. In addition, we may fail to accurately estimate and assess our increased operating expenses as we grow. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: •acceptance of, and demand for, our products and technology; •the costs of developing new products or technology; •the extent to which we invest in new technology and research and development projects; •the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; •the costs associated with our expansion, if any; and •the sale of the businesses or assets that comprise our DTS Digital Cinema and Images businesses. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. This may materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 26 We have a limited operating history in our new and evolving markets. Although the first movie with a DTS audio soundtrack was released in 1993, we did not enter the home theater market until 1996, and our technology has only recently been incorporated into other consumer electronics markets, such as car audio, personal computers, video games and consoles, portable electronics devices, and digital satellite and cable broadcast products. More recently, we have entered into the "virtual" surround space with the asset acquisition of Spatializer Laboratories, Inc. and internal development of technology that we have branded DTS Surround Sensation. We do not have experience in this specific segment of the market and it is dominated by existing technologies from companies including Dolby Laboratories, Inc., SRS Labs, Inc. and BBE Sound, Inc. In addition, while we have completed many digital image processing, enhancement and restoration film projects, it is only recently that a large number of these projects have been completed. As a result, the demand for our technology, products, and services and the income potential of these businesses are unproven. In addition, because the market for digital audio technology and image services is relatively new and rapidly evolving, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business. Before investing in our common stock, you should consider the risks, uncertainties, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as ours. We may not be able to successfully address any or all of these risks. Our technology and products are complex and may contain errors that could cause us to lose customers, damage our reputation, or incur substantial costs. Our technology or products could contain errors that could cause our products or technology to operate improperly and could cause unintended consequences. If our products or technology contain errors we could be required to replace them, and if any such errors cause unintended consequences we could face claims for product liability. Although we generally attempt to contractually limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages, as well as provide insurance coverage to such events, if these contract provisions are not enforced or are unenforceable for any reason, if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited, or if our insurance coverage is inadequate to satisfy the liability, we could incur substantial costs in defending and/or settling product liability claims. We cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact thereof on our operations or the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that our system of internal controls will be effective in the future as our operations and control environment change. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, our financial reporting may be inaccurate. If reporting errors actually occur, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. These results could adversely affect our financial results or the market price of our common stock. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international operations. Our licensing headquarters are located in Limerick, Ireland, and we market and sell our products and services outside the United States. We currently have employees located in more than ten countries worldwide, and many of our customers and licensees are located outside the United States. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international sales. For the year ended 27 December 31, 2007, over 90% of our revenues from continuing operations were derived internationally. We face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including: •unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; •tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargos, and other trade barriers; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •competition from foreign companies; •dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels; •longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •less effective and less predictable protection of intellectual property; •changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region, particularly in emerging markets; •fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange; and •potentially adverse tax consequences. Such factors could cause our future international sales to decline. Our business practices in international markets are also subject to the requirements of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If any of our employees is found to have violated these requirements, we could be subject to significant fines and other penalties. Our international revenue is mostly denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our technology, products, and services more expensive for international customers, which could cause them to decrease their purchases from us. Expenses for our subsidiaries are denominated in their respective local currencies. Significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The main foreign currencies we encounter in our operations are the Yen, Euro, RMB and GBP. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. We face risks in expanding our business operations in China. One of our key strategies is to expand our business operations in China. However, we may be unsuccessful in implementing this strategy as planned or at all. Factors that could inhibit our successful expansion into China include its historically poor recognition of intellectual property rights and poor performance in stopping counterfeiting and piracy activity. If we are unable to successfully stop unauthorized use of our intellectual property and assure compliance by our Chinese licensees, we could experience increased operational and enforcement costs both inside and outside China. Even if we are successful in expanding into China, we may be greatly impacted by the political, economic, and military conditions in China, Taiwan, North Korea, and South Korea. Such disputes may continue or escalate, resulting in economic embargos, disruptions in shipping, or even military hostilities. This could severely harm our business by interrupting or delaying production or shipment of our products or products that incorporate our technology. 28 We may experience fluctuations in our operating results. We have historically experienced moderate seasonality in our business due to our business mix and the nature of our products. In our consumer business, consumer electronics manufacturing activities are generally lowest in the first calendar quarter of each year, and increase progressively throughout the remainder of the year. Manufacturing output is generally strongest in the third and fourth quarters as our technology licensees increase manufacturing to prepare for the holiday buying season. Since recognition of revenues in our consumer business generally lags manufacturing activity by one quarter, our revenues and earnings from the consumer business are generally lowest in the second quarter. Film licensing revenues are generally strongest in the second and fourth quarters due to the abundance of movies typically released during the summer and year-end holiday seasons. The introduction of new products and inclusion of our technologies in new and rapidly growing markets can distort and amplify the seasonality described above. For example, the introduction of next generation optical disc players may result in an overall near-term slowdown in our business as sales of standard definition players slow in anticipation of purchasing next generation products, but purchases of next generation products are in an early-adopter only phase. Similar issues may affect our cinema hardware business during the expected transition to digital cinema. Our revenues may continue to be subject to fluctuations, seasonal or otherwise, in the future. Unanticipated fluctuations, whether due to seasonality, product cycles, or otherwise, could cause us to miss our earnings projections, or could lead to higher than normal variation in short-term earnings, either of which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we actively engage in intellectual property compliance and enforcement activities focused on identifying third parties who have either incorporated our technology, trademarks, or know-how without a license or who have underreported to us the amount of royalties owed under license agreements with us. As a result of these activities, from time to time, we may recognize royalty revenues that relate to consumer electronics manufacturing activities from prior periods and we may incur expenditures related to enforcement activity. These expenditures and royalty recoveries, as applicable, may cause revenues to be higher than expected, or net profit to be lower than expected, during a particular reporting period and may not recur in future reporting periods. Such fluctuations in our revenues and operating results may cause declines in our stock price. Even if our technologies are adopted as an industry standard for a particular market, market participants may not widely adopt our technologies. Even if a standards-setting body mandates our technologies for a particular market, our technologies may not be the sole technologies adopted for that market as an industry standard. Our licensing of industry standard technologies can be subject to limitations that could adversely affect our business and prospects. When a standards-setting body adopts our technologies as explicit industry standards, we generally must agree to license such technologies on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, which could limit our control over the use of these technologies. In these situations, we may be required to limit the royalty rates we charge for these technologies, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we may be unable to limit to whom we license such technologies, and may be unable to restrict many terms of the license. From time to time, we may be subject to claims that our licenses of our industry standard technologies may not conform to the requirements of the standards-setting body. Claimants in such cases could seek to restrict or change our licensing practices or our ability to license our technologies in ways that could injure our reputation and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. 29 Our ability to develop proprietary technology in markets in which "open standards" are adopted may be limited, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. Standards-setting bodies, such as those for digital cinema technologies, may require the use of so-called "open standards," meaning that the technologies necessary to meet those standards are publicly available. The use of open standards may reduce our opportunity to generate revenue, as open standards technologies are based upon non-proprietary technology platforms in which no one company maintains ownership over the dominant technologies. We are dependent on our management team and technical talent. Our success depends, in part, upon the continued availability and contributions of our management team and engineering and technical personnel because of the complexity of our products and services. Important factors that could cause the loss of key personnel include: •our existing employment agreements with the members of our management team allow such persons to terminate their employment with us at any time; •we do not have employment agreements with a majority of our key engineering and technical personnel; •significant portions of the equity awards held by the members of our management team are vested; and •equity awards held by some of our executive officers provide for accelerated vesting in the event of a sale or change of control of our company. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract qualified personnel in a timely manner could slow our technology and product development and harm our ability to execute our business plan. A loss of one or more of our key customers or licensees in any of our markets could adversely affect our business. From time to time, one or a small number of our customers or licensees may represent a significant percentage of our revenue. For instance, in 2007, two customers accounted for 17% and 15%, respectively, of revenues from our continuing operations. Although we have agreements with many of these customers, these agreements typically do not require any material minimum purchases or minimum royalty fees and do not prohibit customers from purchasing products and services from competitors. A decision by any of our major customers or licensees not to use our technologies, or their failure or inability to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner, or at all, could have a significant adverse effect on our business. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our net income. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rates have recently been and could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, by discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may come under audit by tax authorities. For instance, the Internal Revenue Service has begun an examination of our 2005 federal income tax return during the fourth quarter of 2007. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation 30 could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. Current and future governmental and industry standards may significantly limit our business opportunities. Technology standards are important in the audio and video industry as they help to assure compatibility across a system or series of products. Generally, standards adoption occurs on either a mandatory basis, requiring a particular technology to be available in a particular product or medium, or an optional basis, meaning that a particular technology may be, but is not required to be, utilized. For example, both our digital multi-channel audio technology and Dolby's have optional status in Standard Definition DVD and Blu-ray Disc. In the standard for Blu-ray Disc, both DTS and Dolby technologies have been selected as mandatory standards for two-channel output. However, if either or both of these standards are re-examined or a new standard is developed, we may not be included as mandatory in any such new or revised standard which would cause revenue growth in our consumer business to be significantly lower than expected and could have a material adverse affect on our business. Various national governments have adopted or are in the process of adopting standards for all digital television broadcasts, including cable, satellite, and terrestrial. In the United States, Dolby's audio technology has been selected as the sole, mandatory audio standard for terrestrial digital television broadcasts. As a result, the audio for all digital terrestrial television broadcasts in the United States must include Dolby's technology and must exclude any other format, including ours. We do not know whether this standard will be reopened or amended. If it is not, our audio technology may never be included in that standard. Certain large and developing markets, such as China, have not fully developed their digital television standards. Our technology may or may not ultimately be included in these standards. As new technologies and entertainment media emerge, new standards relating to these technologies or media may develop. New standards may also emerge in existing markets that are currently characterized by competing formats, such as the market for personal computers. We may not be successful in our efforts to include our technology in any such standards. We may not successfully address problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. We expect to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products, and businesses that could enhance our technical capabilities, complement our current products and services, or expand the breadth of our markets, including without limitation the potential acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Avica. We have a limited history of acquiring and integrating businesses. Acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: •problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products, or business operations; •significant future charges relating to in-process research and development and the amortization of intangible assets; •significant amount of goodwill that is not amortizable and is subject to annual impairment review; •problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls, and policies; •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition, including accounting and legal charges, capital expenditures, and transaction expenses; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 31 •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; •unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to the acquired businesses; •the need to integrate accounting, management information, manufacturing, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; and •potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted, and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different geographies, cultures and languages, currency risks and risks associated with the particular economic, political and regulatory environment in specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of our acquisitions may not materialize, whether because of failure to obtain stockholder approval or otherwise. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our operating results or financial condition. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We may have difficulty managing any growth that we might experience. As a result of a combination of internal growth and growth through acquisitions, we expect to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations and the number of our employees. If this growth continues, it will place a significant strain on our management team and on our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. Our future success will depend in part on the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. This will require our management to: •hire and train additional personnel in the United States and internationally; •implement and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; •maintain our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the revenues we generate; •manage multiple concurrent development projects; and •manage operations in multiple time zones with different cultures and languages. Any failure to successfully manage our growth could distract management's attention, and result in our failure to execute our business plan. We have limited experience in image processing, enhancement and restoration. Although we have established relationships with a number of motion picture studios, content owners, producers and distributors, we do not have any contractual agreements that require them to provide us image content for processing. Further, the demand for image processing, enhancement and restoration of cinema, home video or broadcast television content may not materialize or accelerate as we anticipate, which would have a negative impact on our business. Our revenues from film producers and distributors and from the products and services that we offer to movie theaters would decline if the major U.S. film producers and distributors decrease or delay the number of films they release using DTS technology or services. Although the major U.S. film producers and distributors are customers of ours, we generally do not have contractual arrangements that require them to use our DTS audio technology or our digital 32 image services. Our cinema and digital images business depends on our having good relations with these film studios and other content owners. A deterioration in our relationship with any of these customers could cause them to stop using our DTS audio technology or our digital image enhancement services. Any significant decline or delay in the release of motion pictures with DTS audio soundtracks would decrease the demand for and revenues from the playback products and services that we offer to movie theaters. In addition, other motion picture studios, content owners, producers, and distributors throughout the world generally adopt and use the processes and the technologies used by the major U.S. film studios. Therefore, if the major U.S. motion picture studios, content owners, producers or distributors stop using our technology, we would not only lose the per-movie licensing fees we receive from these customers, but may also lose per-movie licensing fees from other film studios throughout the world. Furthermore, poor box-office performance caused by a weak film release calendar or declining consumer interest in the films being released could have a negative impact on the demand for the products and services we sell to the motion picture industry. The movie theater industry has suffered and may continue to suffer from an oversupply of screens, which has affected and may continue to affect demand for the products and services we offer to movie theaters. Our cinema business depends in part on the construction of new screens and the renovation of existing theaters that install our DTS playback systems and cinema processors. Over the past decade, aggressive building of megaplexes by companies that operate movie theaters has generated significant competition and resulted in an oversupply of screens in some domestic and international markets. The resulting oversupply of screens led to significant declines in revenues per screen and, eventually, to an inability by many major film exhibitors to satisfy their financial obligations. Several major movie theater operators have reorganized through bankruptcy proceedings, and many movie theaters have closed. As a result, our playback systems and cinema processors that we previously sold to movie theaters that have reorganized and closed have been relocated to other theaters or have been available for resale in the secondary market to movie theaters that might otherwise have purchased these products directly from us. More recently, the industry has experienced a decline in movie theater attendance. If this decline were to continue, exhibitors could see a decline in revenue per screen and, potentially, an inability to satisfy their financial obligations resulting in the closure of screens. If movie theater operators decide to close a significant number of screens in the future or cut their capital spending, demand for our playback systems and cinema processors will decline. Additionally, the expected transition to digital cinema could harm our legacy cinema business because operators may decide to delay procurement decisions as they wait to evaluate the widespread roll out of digital cinema, operators may decide to purchase digital cinema systems that do not require our existing products and services, and as existing screens are repurposed to digital cinema, the quantity of our existing products on the secondary market may increase significantly. These developments may harm our business and operating results. The demand for our current or "legacy" cinema products and production services could decline if the film industry broadly adopts digital cinema. If the film industry broadly adopts digital cinema, the demand for our current or "legacy" cinema products and production services could decline. If, in such circumstances, we are unable to adapt our professional products and production services or replace such business with new products for the market for digital cinema successfully, our business could be materially adversely affected. We depend on several sole and limited source suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors for some of our products, and the loss of any of these suppliers, manufacturers, or distributors could harm our business. We purchase a small number of parts from sole-source suppliers. In addition, our professional audio encoding devices and movie theater playback systems are manufactured according to our 33 specifications by single third-party manufacturers. Because we have no direct control over these third-party suppliers and manufacturers, interruptions or delays in the products and services provided by these third parties may be difficult to remedy in a timely fashion. In addition, if such suppliers or manufacturers are incapable of or unwilling to deliver the necessary parts or products, we may be unable to redesign our technology to work without such parts or find alternative suppliers or manufacturers. In such events, we could experience interruptions, delays, increased costs, or quality control problems. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management, disposal and labeling of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. We also face increasing complexity in our product design as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products. For example, restrictions on lead and other hazardous substances that apply to specified electronic products put on the market in the European Union became effective as of July 1, 2006 and similar requirements related to marking of electronic products became effective in China as of March 1, 2007. Substituting particular components containing regulated hazardous substances can be difficult or costly, and redesign efforts could result in production delays. Products that we maintain in inventory may be rendered obsolete if not in compliance with the new environmental laws, which could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from those products. We could also face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. We also expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental laws and regulations on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, they will likely result in additional costs or decreased revenue, and could require that we redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; •market perception of our progress toward announced objectives, including without limitation, the sale of the businesses or assets that comprise our DTS Digital Cinema and Images businesses; •announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors or technology standards; •announcements of significant contracts by us or our competitors; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •developments with respect to intellectual property rights; 34 •the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; •the commencement of or our involvement in litigation; •our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; •conditions and trends in technology industries; •changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; •the trading volume of our common stock; •announcements of potential acquisitions; •the adoption rate of new products incorporating our or our competitors' technologies, including next generation optical disc players; •changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; and •general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of technology companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common shares may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control and could also limit the market price of our stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our Board of Directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; •provide for a classified Board of Directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; •prohibit stockholders from filling Board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; and •require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, 35 Restated Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our Board or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current Board, including delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 