Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to evolve our technologies, products, and services or develop new technology, products, and services that are acceptable to our customers or the changing market. The market for our technologies, products, and services is characterized by: •rapid technological change; •new and improved product introductions; •changing customer demands; •evolving industry standards; and •product obsolescence. Our future success depends upon our ability to enhance our existing technologies, products, and services and to develop acceptable new technologies, products, and services on a timely basis. The development of enhanced and new technologies, products, and services is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation, highly-skilled engineering and development personnel, and the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We may not be able to identify, develop, market, or support new or enhanced technologies, products, or services on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, our new technologies, products, and services may never gain market acceptance, and we may not be able to respond effectively to evolving consumer demands, technological changes, product announcements by competitors, or emerging industry standards. Any failure to respond to these changes or concerns would likely prevent our technologies, products, and services from gaining market acceptance or maintaining market share and could lead to our technologies, products and services becoming obsolete. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be harmed. Protection of our intellectual property is critical to our success. Copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret laws and confidentiality and other contractual provisions afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. We face numerous risks in protecting our intellectual property rights, including the following: •our competitors may produce competitive products or services that do not unlawfully infringe upon our intellectual property rights; •the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate in foreign countries; •we may be unable to successfully identify or prosecute unauthorized uses of our technologies; •efforts to identify and prosecute unauthorized uses of our technologies are time consuming, expensive, and divert resources from the operation of our business; •our patents may be challenged, found unenforceable or invalidated by our competitors; 17 Table of Contents •our pending patent applications may not issue, or if issued, may not provide meaningful protection for related products or proprietary rights; •we may not be able to practice our trade secrets as a result of patent protection afforded a third-party for such product, technique or process; and •we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees, consultants, and advisors. As a result, our means of protecting our intellectual property rights and brands may not be adequate. Furthermore, despite our efforts, third parties may violate, or attempt to violate, our intellectual property rights. Enforcement, including infringement claims and lawsuits would likely be expensive to resolve and would require management's time and resources. In addition, we have not sought, and do not intend to seek, patent and other intellectual property protections in all foreign countries. In countries where we do not have such protection, products incorporating our technology may be lawfully produced and sold without a license. We have limited control over existing and potential customers' and licensees' decisions to include our technologies in their product offerings. Except for Blu-ray products, where our technology is mandatory, we are dependent upon our customers and licensees—including consumer electronics product manufacturers, semiconductor manufacturers, producers and distributors of content for music, videos, and games—to incorporate our technologies into their products, purchase our products and services, or release their content in our proprietary DTS audio format. Although we have contracts and license agreements with many of these companies, these agreements do not require any minimum purchase commitments, are on a non-exclusive basis, and do not typically require incorporation or use of our technologies, trademarks or services. Furthermore, the decision by a party dominant in the entertainment value chain to provide audio technology at very low or no cost could impact a licensee's decision to use our technology. Our customers, licensees and other manufacturers might not utilize our technologies or services in the future. If we are unable to maintain a sufficient amount of entertainment content released with DTS audio soundtracks, demand for the technologies, products, and services that we offer to consumer electronics product manufacturers may significantly decline. We expect to derive a significant percentage of our revenues from the technologies, products, and services that we offer to manufacturers of consumer electronics products. To date, the most significant driver for the use of our technologies in the home theater market has been the release of major movie titles with DTS audio soundtracks. We also believe that demand for our DTS audio technologies in growing markets for multi-channel audio, including cars, personal computers, video game consoles, digital media players and mobile handsets will be based on the number, quality, and popularity of the Blu-ray Disc titles, computer software programs, and video games either released with DTS audio soundtracks or capable of being coded and played in DTS format. Although we have existing relationships with many leading providers of movie, music, computer, and video game content, we generally do not have contracts that require these parties to develop and release content with DTS audio soundtracks. In addition, we may not be successful in maintaining existing relationships or developing relationships with other existing providers or new market entrants that provide content. As a result, we cannot assure you that a significant amount of content in movies, Blu-ray Disc titles, computer software programs, video games, or other entertainment mediums will be released with DTS audio soundtracks. If the amount, variety, and popularity of entertainment content released with DTS audio soundtracks do not increase, consumer electronics products manufacturers that pay us per-unit 18 Table of Contents licensing fees may discontinue offering DTS playback capabilities in the consumer electronics products that they sell. The on-line content delivery market could impact our ability to grow. Movie and music content for the last 15 years has been primarily purchased and consumed via optical media, such as Blu-ray, DVD, and CD. Today, these are still the dominant way consumers purchase and watch or listen to their favorite content. However, the growth of the internet and home computer usage, and a shift to home network and cloud-based content acquisition has occurred, including the recent trend to full movie download and streaming services becoming mainstream with consumers in various parts of the world. The services that provide movie content from the cloud are not generally governed by international or national standards and are thus free to choose any media format(s) in order to deliver their product and/or service. This freedom of choice on the part of the content provider could limit DTS' ability to grow if such content providers do not incorporate DTS' technologies into their movies. Our ability to develop proprietary technology in markets in which "open standards" are adopted may be limited, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. Standards-setting bodies may require the use of so-called "open standards," meaning that the technologies necessary to meet those standards are publicly available free of charge and often on an "open source" basis. These standards are a relatively recent and limited occurrence and have primarily been focused on markets and regions traditionally adverse to the notion of intellectual property ownership and the associated royalties. If the concept of "open standards" gains industry momentum in the future, the use of open standards may reduce our opportunity to generate revenue, as open standards technologies are based upon non-proprietary technology platforms in which no one company maintains ownership over the dominant technologies. Our business is highly dependent upon the growth in Blu-ray Disc products, and to the extent that consumer adoption of Blu-ray Disc products fails to materialize, our business will be adversely affected. Past growth in our business has been due in large part to the rapid growth in sales of DVD based products and home theater systems incorporating our technologies. As the markets for DVD based products mature, we are seeing sales of these products declining and growth in our business shifting to Blu-ray Disc based products. While the release and consumer adoption of Blu-ray Disc players continues to ramp up, potentially slow adoption by consumers of Blu-ray Disc players, particularly in the PC market, could adversely affect our business. In addition, if new technologies, including content streaming on direct downloads of content, are developed or deployed that substantially compete with or replace Blu-ray Disc products as a dominant medium for consumer video entertainment, our business, operating results and prospects could be adversely affected. We may have difficulty managing any growth that we might experience. As a result of a combination of internal growth and growth through acquisitions, we expect to continue to experience growth in the scope of our operations and the number of our employees. If our growth continues, it may place a significant strain on our management team and on our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. Our future success will depend in part upon the ability of our management team to manage any growth effectively. This will require our management to: •hire and train additional personnel in the United States and internationally; •implement and improve our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; •maintain our cost structure at an appropriate level based on the revenues we generate; 19 Table of Contents •manage multiple concurrent development projects; and •manage operations in multiple time zones with different cultures and languages. Any failure to successfully manage our growth could distract management's attention, and result in our failure to execute our business plan. Our business and prospects depend upon the strength of our brand, and if we do not maintain and strengthen our brand, our business will be materially harmed. Establishing, maintaining and strengthening our "DTS" brand is critical to our success. Our brand identity is key to maintaining and expanding our business and entering new markets. Our success depends in large part upon our reputation for providing high-quality products, services and technologies to the consumer electronics products industry and the entertainment industry. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully, our business and prospects may suffer. Moreover, we believe that the likelihood that our technologies will be adopted in industry standards depends, in part, upon the strength of our brand, because professional organizations and industry participants are more likely to incorporate technologies developed by a well-respected and well-known brand into standards. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our net income. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rates could in the future be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those tax laws, by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We may come under audit by tax authorities. For instance, the Internal Revenue Service is examining our 2007 federal income tax return, including certain prior period carryforwards, and the State of California is examining our 2004 and 2005 corporate tax returns. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the results of an audit or litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. In addition, changes in tax rules may adversely affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, we consider the operating earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. We have not provided for United States federal or foreign withholding taxes that may result on future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Our future reported financial results may be adversely affected if tax or accounting rules regarding unrepatriated earnings change. Current and future governmental and industry standards may significantly limit our business opportunities. Technology standards are important in the audio and video industry as they help to assure compatibility across a system or series of products. Generally, standards adoption occurs on either a mandatory basis, requiring a particular technology to be available in a particular product or medium, or an optional basis, meaning that a particular technology may be, but is not required to be, utilized. For example, both our digital multi-channel audio technology and Dolby's have optional status in Blu-ray Disc, while both our two-channel output and Dolby's technologies have been selected as mandatory standards in Blu-ray Disc. However, if either or both of these standards are re-examined or a new standard is developed, we may not be included as mandatory in any such new or revised standard which would cause revenue growth in our consumer business to be significantly lower than expected and could have a material adverse affect on our business. 20 Table of Contents Various national governments have adopted or are in the process of adopting standards for all digital television broadcasts, including cable, satellite, and terrestrial. In the United States, Dolby's audio technology has been selected as the sole, mandatory audio standard for terrestrial digital television broadcasts. As a result, the audio for all digital terrestrial television broadcasts in the United States must include Dolby's technology and must exclude any other format, including ours. We do not know whether this standard will be reopened or amended. If it is not, our audio technology may never be included in that standard. Certain large and developing markets, such as China, have not fully developed their digital television standards. Our technology may or may not ultimately be included in these standards. As new technologies and entertainment media emerge, new standards relating to these technologies or media may develop. New standards may also emerge in existing markets that are currently characterized by competing formats, such as the market for personal computers. We may not be successful in our efforts to include our technology in any such standards. We are dependent upon our management team and technical talent. Our success depends, in part, upon the continued availability and contributions of our management team and engineering and technical personnel because of the complexity of our products and services. Important factors that could cause the loss of key personnel include: •our existing employment agreements with the members of our management team allow such persons to terminate their employment with us at any time; •we do not have employment agreements with a majority of our key engineering and technical personnel; •significant portions of the equity awards held by the members of our management team are vested; and •equity awards held by some of our executive officers provide for accelerated vesting in the event of a sale or change of control of our company. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract qualified personnel in a timely manner could slow our technology and product development and harm our ability to execute our business plan. Our technologies and products are complex and may contain errors that could cause us to lose customers, damage our reputation, or incur substantial costs. Our technologies or products could contain errors that could cause our products or technologies to operate improperly and could cause unintended consequences. If our products or technologies contain errors we, could be required to replace them, and if any such errors cause unintended consequences, we could face claims for product liability. Although we generally attempt to contractually limit our exposure to incidental and consequential damages, as well as provide insurance coverage for such events, if these contract provisions are not enforced or are unenforceable for any reason, if liabilities arise that are not effectively limited, or if our insurance coverage is inadequate to satisfy the liability, we could incur substantial costs in defending and/or settling product liability claims. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, and we may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. Companies that participate in the digital audio, digital image processing, consumer electronics, and entertainment industries hold a large number of patents, trademarks, and copyrights, and are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Intellectual property disputes frequently involve highly complex and costly scientific 21 Table of Contents matters, and each party generally has the right to seek a trial by jury which adds additional costs and uncertainty. Accordingly, intellectual property disputes, with or without merit, could be costly and time consuming to litigate or settle, and could divert management's attention from executing our business plan. In addition, our technologies and products may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If we were unable to obtain any necessary license following a determination of infringement or an adverse determination in litigation or in interference or other administrative proceedings, we may need to redesign some of our products to avoid infringing a third party's rights and could be required to temporarily or permanently discontinue licensing our products. In the past, we have been a party to litigation related to protection and enforcement of our intellectual property, and we may be a party to additional litigation in the future. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages (including treble damages under the Clayton Act) and an injunction prohibiting us from licensing our technologies in particular ways or at all. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. In addition, any protracted litigation could divert management's attention from our day-to-day operations, disrupt our business and cause our operating results to suffer. We rely on the accuracy of our customers' manufacturing reports for reporting and collecting our revenues, and if these reports are untimely or incorrect, our revenues could be delayed or inaccurately reported. Most of our revenues are generated from consumer electronics product manufacturers who license and incorporate our technology in their consumer electronics products. Under our existing agreements, these customers pay us per-unit licensing fees based on the number of consumer electronics products manufactured that incorporate our technology. We rely on our customers to accurately report the number of units manufactured in collecting our license fees, preparing our financial reports, projections, budgets, and directing our sales and product development efforts. Most of our license agreements permit us to audit our customers, but audits are generally expensive, time consuming, difficult to manage effectively, dependent in large part upon the cooperation of our licensees and the quality of the records they keep, and could harm our customer relationships. If any of our customer reports understate the number of products they manufacture, we may not collect and recognize revenues to which we are entitled, or may endure significant expense to obtain compliance. A loss of one or more of our key customers or licensees in any of our markets could adversely affect our business. From time to time, one or a small number of our customers or licensees may represent a significant percentage of our revenue. For instance, in 2011, two customers accounted for 16% and 12%, respectively, of revenues from our continuing operations. Although we have agreements with many of our customers, these agreements typically do not require any material minimum purchases or minimum royalty fees and do not prohibit customers from purchasing products and services from competitors. A decision by any of our major customers or licensees not to use our technologies, or their failure or inability to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner, or at all, could have a significant adverse effect on our business. We face intense competition. Certain of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The digital audio, consumer electronics and entertainment markets are intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. Our principal competitor is Dolby Laboratories, Inc., who competes with us in most of our markets. We also compete with other companies offering digital audio technology incorporated into consumer electronics product and entertainment mediums, including 22 Table of Contents Fraunhofer Institut Integrierte Schaltungen, Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. (Philips), Microsoft Corporation, Sony Corporation, Thomson and SRS Labs, Inc. Certain of our current and potential competitors may enjoy substantial competitive advantages, including: •greater name recognition; •a longer operating history; •more developed distribution channels and deeper relationships with our common customer base; •a more extensive customer base; •digital technologies that provide features that ours do not; •broader product and service offerings; •greater resources for competitive activities, such as research and development, strategic acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, sales and marketing, and lobbying industry and government standards; •more technicians and engineers; •greater technical support; and •open source or free codecs. As a result, these current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, or customer requirements. In addition to the competitive advantages described above, Dolby also enjoys other unique competitive strengths relative to us. For example, it introduced multi-channel audio technology before we did. It has also achieved mandatory standard status in product categories that we have not, including terrestrial digital television broadcasts in the United States. As a result of these factors, Dolby has a competitive advantage in selling its digital multi-channel audio technology to consumer electronics products manufacturers. We have a limited operating history in certain new and evolving markets. Our technologies have only recently been incorporated into certain markets, such as digital media players, televisions, personal computers, digital satellite and cable broadcast products, portable electronics devices and mobile handsets. We do not have the same experience in these markets as in our traditional consumer electronics business, nor do we have as much operating history as companies such as Dolby Laboratories, Inc., SRS Labs, Inc. and BBE Sound, Inc. As a result, the demand for our technologies, products, and services and the income potential of these businesses is unproven. In addition, because our participation in these markets is relatively new and rapidly evolving, we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business. Before investing in our common stock, you should consider the risks, uncertainties, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as ours. We may not be able to successfully address any or all of these risks. 23 Table of Contents Declining retail prices for consumer electronics products could force us to lower the license or other fees we charge our customers. The market for consumer electronics products is intensely competitive and price sensitive. Retail prices for consumer electronics products that include our DTS audio technologies have decreased significantly and we expect prices to continue to decrease for the foreseeable future. Declining prices for consumer electronics products could create downward pressure on the licensing fees we currently charge our customers who integrate our technologies into the consumer electronics products that they sell and distribute. Most of the consumer electronics products that include our audio technologies also include Dolby's multi-channel audio technology. As a result of pricing pressure, consumer electronics products manufacturers who manufacture products in which our audio technologies are not a mandatory standard could decide to exclude our DTS audio technologies from their products altogether. Economic downturns could disrupt and materially harm our business. Negative trends in the general economy could cause a downturn in the market for our technologies, products and services. The recent financial disruption affecting the global financial markets and the concern whether investment banks and other financial institutions will continue operations in the foreseeable future have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. The recent financial crisis may adversely affect our operating results if it results, for example, in the insolvency of a key licensee or other customer, the inability of our licensees and/or other customers to obtain credit to finance their operations, including to finance the manufacture of products containing our technologies, and delays in reporting and/or payments from our licensees. Tight credit markets could also delay or prevent us from acquiring or making investments in other technologies, products or businesses that could enhance our technical capabilities, complement our current products and services, or expand the breadth of our markets. If we are unable to execute such acquisitions and/or strategic investments, our operating results and business prospects may suffer. In addition, global economic conditions, including the credit crisis, increased cost of commodities, widespread employee layoffs, actual or threatened military action by the United States and the continued threat of terrorism, have resulted in decreased consumer spending and may continue to negatively impact consumer confidence and spending. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income, in general, may negatively affect the demand for consumer electronics products that incorporate our digital audio technologies. We cannot predict other negative events that may have adverse effects on the global economy in general and the consumer electronics industry specifically. However, the factors described above and such unforeseen events could negatively affect our revenues and operating results. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Natural or other disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, and the consequences and effects thereof, including energy shortages and public health issues, could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our business partners and customers, or result in economic instability that may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Our corporate headquarters and many of our operations are located in California, a seismically active region, potentially exposing us to greater risk of natural disasters. 24 Table of Contents Our licensing revenue depends in large part upon semiconductor manufacturers incorporating our technologies into integrated circuits, or ICs, for sale to our consumer electronics product licensees and if, for any reason, our technologies are not incorporated in these ICs or fewer ICs are sold that incorporate our technologies, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our licensing revenue from consumer electronics product manufacturers depends in large part upon the availability of ICs that implement our technologies. IC manufacturers incorporate our technologies into these ICs, which are then incorporated into consumer electronics products. We do not manufacture these ICs, but rather depend upon IC manufacturers to develop, produce and then sell them to licensed consumer electronics product manufacturers. We do not control the IC manufacturers' decisions whether or not to incorporate our technologies into their ICs, and we do not control their product development or commercialization efforts. If these IC manufacturers are unable or unwilling, for any reason, to implement our technologies into their ICs, or if, for any reason, they sell fewer ICs incorporating our technologies, our operating results will be adversely affected. We may not successfully address problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions. We expect to consider opportunities to acquire or make investments in other technologies, products, and businesses that could enhance our technical capabilities, complement our current products and services, or expand the breadth of our markets. We have a limited history of acquiring and integrating businesses. Acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: •problems assimilating the purchased technologies, products, or business operations; •significant future charges relating to in-process research and development and the amortization of intangible assets; •significant amount of goodwill that is not amortizable and is subject to annual impairment review; •problems maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls, and policies; •unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition, including accounting and legal charges, capital expenditures, and transaction expenses; •diversion of management's attention from our core business; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; •unanticipated or unknown liabilities relating to the acquired businesses; •the need to integrate accounting, management information, manufacturing, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; and •potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and strategic investments, our management team may be distracted from our day-to-day operations, our business may be disrupted, and our operating results may suffer. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders would be diluted. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different geographies, cultures and languages, currency risks and risks associated with the particular economic, political and regulatory environment in specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of our acquisitions may not materialize, whether because of failure to obtain stockholder approval or otherwise. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of 25 Table of Contents which could harm our operating results or financial condition. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international operations. Our licensing headquarters are located in Limerick, Ireland, and we market and sell our products and services outside the United States. We currently have employees located in eight countries, and many of our customers and licensees are located outside the United States. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international sales and customer support. During the year ended December 31, 2011, nearly 90% of our revenues were derived internationally. We face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including: •unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; •tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargos, and other trade barriers; •difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel and managing foreign operations; •competition from foreign companies; •dependence upon foreign distributors and their sales channels; •longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •less effective and less predictable protection and enforcement of our intellectual property; •changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region, particularly in emerging markets; •fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange; •potentially adverse tax consequences; and •cultural differences in the conduct of business. Such factors could cause our future international sales to decline. Our business practices in international markets are also subject to the requirements of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If any of our employees is found to have violated these requirements, we and our employees could be subject to significant fines, criminal sanctions and other penalties. Our international revenue is mostly denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may make our technology, products, and services more expensive for international customers, which could cause them to decrease their purchases from us. Expenses for our subsidiaries are denominated in their respective local currencies. As a result, if the U.S. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated expenses will result in higher operating expense without a corresponding increase in revenue. Significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The main foreign currencies we encounter in our operations are the Yen, Euro, RMB, KRW, HKD, TWD, SGD and GBP. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future, which may impact profitability. We expect our operating expenses to increase as we, among other things: •expand our sales and marketing activities, including the continued development of our international operations; 26 Table of Contents •adopt a more customer-focused business model which is expected to entail additional hiring; •acquire businesses or technologies and integrate them into our existing organization; •increase our research and development efforts to advance our existing technologies, products, and services and develop new technologies, products, and services; •hire additional personnel, including engineers and other technical staff; •expand and defend our intellectual property portfolio; •upgrade our operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls; and •continue to assume the responsibilities of being a public company. As a result, we will need to grow our revenues and manage our costs in order to positively impact profitability. In addition, we may fail to accurately estimate and assess our increased operating expenses as we grow. Compliance with changing securities laws, regulations and financial reporting standards will increase our costs and pose challenges for our management team. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with operating as a publicly traded company in the United States. Our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Furthermore, with such uncertainties, we cannot assure you that our system of internal control will be effective or satisfactory to our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, our financial reporting may not be timely and/or accurate and we may be issued an adverse or qualified opinion by our independent registered public accounting firm. If reporting delays or errors actually occur, we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, and could adversely affect our financial results or result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial information, which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, the SEC has passed, promulgated and proposed new rules on a variety of subjects including the requirement that we must file our financial statements with the SEC using the interactive data format eXtensible Business Reporting Language, or XBRL, and the possibility that we would be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS. In order to comply with XBRL and IFRS requirements, we may have to add additional accounting staff, engage consultants or change our internal practices, standards and policies which could significantly increase our costs. We believe that these new and proposed laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Our licensing of industry standard technologies can be subject to limitations that could adversely affect our business and prospects. When a standards-setting body adopts our technologies as explicit industry standards, we generally must agree to license such technologies on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis, which we believe means that we treat similarly situated licensees similarly. In these situations, we may be required to limit the royalty rates we charge for these technologies, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we may have limited control over whom we license such technologies to, and may be unable to restrict many terms of the license. From time to time, we may be subject to claims 27 Table of Contents that our licenses of our industry standard technologies may not conform to the requirements of the standards-setting body. Claimants in such cases could seek to restrict or change our licensing practices or our ability to license our technologies in ways that could injure our reputation and otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results. We have historically experienced moderate seasonality in our business due to our business mix and the nature of our products. Consumer electronics manufacturing activities are generally lowest in the first calendar quarter of each year, and increase progressively throughout the remainder of the year. Manufacturing output is generally strongest in the third and fourth quarters as our technology licensees increase manufacturing to prepare for the holiday buying season. Since recognition of revenues generally lags manufacturing activity by one quarter, our revenues and earnings are generally lowest in the second quarter. The introduction of new products and inclusion of our technologies in new and rapidly growing markets can distort and amplify the seasonality described above. Our revenues may continue to be subject to fluctuations, seasonal or otherwise, in the future. Unanticipated fluctuations, whether due to seasonality, economic downturns, product cycles, or otherwise, could cause us to miss our earnings projections, or could lead to higher than normal variation in short-term earnings, either of which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, we actively engage in intellectual property compliance and enforcement activities focused on identifying third parties who have either incorporated our technologies, trademarks, or know-how without a license or who have underreported to us the amount of royalties owed under license agreements with us. As a result of these activities, from time to time, we may recognize royalty revenues that relate to manufacturing activities from prior periods and we may incur expenditures related to enforcement activity. These royalty recoveries and expenditures, as applicable, may cause revenues to be higher than expected, or net profit to be lower than expected, during a particular reporting period and may not recur in future reporting periods. Such fluctuations in our revenues and operating results may cause declines in our stock price. The licensing of patents constitutes a significant source of our revenue. If we do not replace expiring patents with new patents or proprietary technologies, our revenue could decline. We hold patents covering much of the technologies that we license to system licensees, and our licensing revenue is tied in large part to the life of those patents. Our right to receive royalties related to our patents terminates with the expiration of the last patent covering the relevant technologies. Accordingly, to the extent that we do not replace licensing revenue from technologies covered by expiring patents with licensing revenue based on new patents and proprietary technologies, our revenue could decline. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Our capital requirements will depend upon many factors, including: •acceptance of, and demand for, our products and technologies; •the costs of developing new products or technologies; •the extent to which we invest in new technologies and research and development projects; •the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; •the costs associated with our expansion, if any; and •the costs of litigation and enforcement activities to defend our intellectual property. 28 Table of Contents In the future, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, particularly given the continuing credit crisis and downturn in the overall global economy. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products and services, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. This may materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and successful. These attempts can include introducing malware to computers and networks, impersonating authorized users, overloading systems and servers and data theft. While we seek to detect and investigate any security issue, in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control and could also limit the market price of our stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our Board of Directors that our stockholders might consider favorable. Some of these provisions: •authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock; •provide for a classified Board of Directors, with each director serving a staggered three-year term; •prohibit stockholders from filling Board vacancies, calling special stockholder meetings, or taking action by written consent; and •require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Restated Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our Board or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current Board, and could delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our Board could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; 29 Table of Contents •market perception of our progress toward announced objectives; •announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors or technology standards; •announcements of significant contracts by us or our competitors; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •developments with respect to intellectual property rights; •the introduction of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; •the commencement of or our involvement in litigation; •resolution of significant litigation in a manner adverse to our business; •our sale or purchase of common stock or other securities in the future; •conditions and trends in technology industries; •changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; •the trading volume of our common stock; •announcements of potential acquisitions; •the adoption rate of new products incorporating our or our competitors' technologies, including Blu-ray Disc players; •changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; and •general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of technology companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class- action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of our common shares may have a greater impact on the trading price for our shares than would be the case if our public float were larger. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 