Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the SEC. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and expect that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had a net loss of $20.4 million. At December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $247.4 million. If we are successful in raising additional capital to support the expansion of our business, our annual net losses may increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure and incur significant costs related to the development of our product candidates. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with ongoing and planned clinical trials for our prioritized product candidates, primarily related to MN-221 for the treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, exacerbations, and any other development activities that it may initiate. In addition, our general and administrative expenses may increase in future periods as a result of several factors, including our research and development activities, our business development activities and any expansions in our infrastructure related to such activities. Consequently, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drug products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We do not have any products that are approved for commercial sale and therefore do not expect to generate any revenues from product sales in the foreseeable future, if ever. To date, we have funded our operations primarily from sales of our securities. We have not received, and do not expect to receive for at least the next several years, if at all, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates. Our only source of revenues since inception has been from development management services rendered to Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation and Argenes, Inc., both Japanese pharmaceutical companies, in connection with their clinical development of pharmaceutical product candidates. We completed our agreement with Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation and terminated our agreement with Argenes, Inc.; therefore, we will not generate any further revenues from these agreements. We anticipate that, prior to our commercialization of a product candidate, out-licensing upfront and milestone payments will be our primary source of revenue. To obtain revenues from sales of our product candidates, we must succeed, either alone or with third parties, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing and marketing drugs with commercial potential. We may never succeed in these activities, and we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations or achieve profitability. We are largely dependent on the success of our two prioritized product candidates, MN-221 and MN-166/AV411, and we cannot be certain that either of these product candidates will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We currently have no products for sale, and we cannot guarantee that we will ever have any drug products approved for sale. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, and comparable regulatory authorities in other 32 Table of Contents countries. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the United States until we submit and receive approval of a NDA, for a product candidate from the FDA or its foreign equivalent from a foreign regulatory authority. Obtaining FDA approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. We currently have two prioritized product candidates, MN-221 for the treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma and COPD exacerbations and MN-166/AV411, a combined ibudalist product development program covering MS and other CNS disorders and the success of our business currently depends on their successful development and commercialization. Neither of these product candidates has completed the clinical development process; therefore, we have not submitted an NDA or foreign equivalent or received marketing approval for either of these two prioritized product candidates. In addition, we are not currently planning to pursue any further significant clinical development of MN-166/AV411 until such time that we are able to secure a strategic collaboration to advance the combined development programs, which may delay or impede the process of completing clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval for this product candidate. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to secure such a strategic collaboration on attractive financial and other terms, or at all. The clinical development programs for MN-221 and MN-166/AV411 may not lead to commercial products for a number of reasons, including if we fail to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities because our clinical trials fail to demonstrate to their satisfaction that these product candidates are safe and effective. We may also fail to obtain the necessary approvals if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance our product candidates through the clinical trial process or are unable to secure a strategic collaboration or partnership with a third party. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approval for either MN-221 or MN-166/AV411 in a timely manner would have a material and adverse impact on our business and our stock price. In order to commercialize a therapeutic drug successfully, a product candidate must receive regulatory approval after the successful completion of clinical trials, which are long, complex and costly, have a high risk of failure and can be delayed or terminated at any time. Our product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. To receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in human patients to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the product candidate. Clinical testing is expensive, takes many years and has an uncertain outcome. To date, we have obtained regulatory authorization to conduct clinical trials for eight of our product development programs. INDs, were approved by the FDA and are active for seven of our product candidates. We also have obtained Clinical Trial Authorizations, or CTAs, for the ongoing Phase II clinical trial for MN-221 in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Furthermore, through the acquisition of Avigen, we have assumed responsibility for AV411 clinical trials including one active IND for neuropathic pain and cross-reference and drug product support of the NIDA-funded opioid withdrawal investigator-initiated IND with Columbia University drug addiction clinical researchers. It may take years to complete the clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug, and delays or failure can occur at any stage, which may result in our inability to market and sell any products derived from any of our product candidates that are ultimately approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing. For example, in October 2007, we announced that our Phase II clinical trial of MN-305 for the treatment of insomnia failed to achieve statistical significance in its primary endpoint, and, as a result, we terminated development of MN-305 for the treatment of insomnia. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. Interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier clinical trials. In addition, any delays in completing clinical trials or the rejection of data from a clinical trial by a 33 Table of Contents regulatory authority will result in increased development costs and could have a material adverse effect on the development of the impacted product candidate. In connection with the conduct of clinical trials for each of our product candidates, we face many risks, including the risks that: • the product candidate may not prove to be effective in treating the targeted indication; • patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested; • the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier trials; • the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not agree with our proposed development plans or accept the results of completed clinical trials; and • our planned clinical trials and the data collected from such clinical trials may be deemed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities not to be sufficient, which would require additional development for the product candidate before it can be evaluated in late stage clinical trials or before the FDA will consider an application for marketing approval. If we do not complete clinical development of our product candidates successfully, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market products and generate revenues from such product candidates. We may also fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance our product candidates through the clinical trial process. In addition, even if we believe that the preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for a product candidate, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve such product candidate for commercial sale in any jurisdiction, which would limit our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our business. In addition, even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA regulations, including obligations to conduct additional clinical trials, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians, and/or a product recall or withdrawal. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials, or suspension or termination of our clinical trials, could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. If we experience delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials, we could incur significantly higher product development costs and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates could be delayed or limited. The commencement and completion of clinical trials requires us to identify and maintain a sufficient number of study sites and enroll a sufficient number of patients at such sites. We do not know whether enrollment in our ongoing and planned clinical trials for our product candidates will be completed on time, or whether our additional planned and ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates will be completed on schedule, if at all. For example, we recently have experienced delays in the enrollment of patients for its ongoing Phase II clinical trial evaluating the safety and efficacy of MN-221 in patients with severe, acute exacerbations of asthma due to changes in the dosing regimen. These delays extended the anticipated date for completion of enrollment by approximately two months. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of other reasons, including delays in: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence or amend a clinical trial; • reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; 34 Table of Contents • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials; • retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but who may be prone to withdraw due to the treatment protocol, lack of efficacy, personal issues, or side effects from the therapy or who are lost to further follow-up; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and • IRB approval or approval from foreign counterparts to conduct or amend a clinical trial at a prospective site. In addition, a clinical trial may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests by them for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results, which may result in the imposition of a clinical hold on the IND for any clinical trial, as well as the inability to resolve any outstanding concerns with the FDA so that a clinical hold already placed on the IND may be lifted and the clinical trial may begin; • inspections of our own clinical trial operations, the operations of our CROs or our clinical trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, which may result in the imposition of a clinical hold or potentially prevent us from using some of the data generated from our clinical trials to support requests for regulatory approval of our product candidates; • our failure or inability, or the failure or inability of our CROs, clinical trial site staff or other third party service providers involved in the clinical trial, to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • lower than anticipated enrollment or retention rates of patients in clinical trials; • new information suggesting unacceptable risk to subjects or unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a trial presents unacceptable health risks; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; and • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties. If we experience delays in the completion of our clinical trials for a product candidate, the commercial prospects for such product candidate may be harmed, we may incur increased costs for development of such product candidate, and our ability to obtain regulatory approval for such product candidate could be delayed or limited. Many of the factors that cause or lead to delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval for a product candidate. In addition, any amendment to a clinical trial protocol may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs or their foreign counterparts for reexamination, which may delay or otherwise impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. The loss of any rights to develop and market any of our product candidates could significantly harm our business. With the exception of AV411, we license the rights to develop and market our product candidates. Currently, we have licensed rights relating to eight compounds for the development of ten product candidates. We are obligated to develop and commercialize these product candidates in accordance with mutually agreed upon terms and conditions. Our ability to satisfy some or all of the terms and conditions of our license 35 Table of Contents agreements is dependent on numerous factors, including some factors that are outside of our control. Any of our license agreements may be terminated if we breach our obligations under the agreement materially and fail to cure any such breach within a specified period of time. If any of our license agreements is terminated, we would have no further rights to develop and commercialize the product candidate that is the subject of the license. The termination of the license agreements related to either of our two prioritized product candidates would significantly and adversely affect our business. The termination of any of the remainder of our license agreements could materially and adversely affect our business. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, they may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunities. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors have products or are pursuing the development of drugs that target the same diseases and conditions that are the focus of our product development programs. We cannot assure you that developments by others will not render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of our competitors have products that have been approved or are in advanced development and may succeed in developing drugs that are more effective, safer and more affordable or more easily administered than ours, or that achieve patent protection or commercialization sooner than our products. Our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any products that we are able to obtain approval for, if at all. In addition, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. In many of our target disease areas, potential competitors are working to develop new compounds with different mechanisms of action and attractive efficacy and safety profiles. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, research and development resources (including personnel and technology), clinical trial experience, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities and production facilities than we do. Smaller companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through proprietary research discoveries and collaboration arrangements with large pharmaceutical and established biotechnology companies. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective and less costly than ours and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. We also expect to face similar competition in our efforts to identify appropriate collaborators or partners to help develop or commercialize our product candidates. We will depend on strategic collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize selected product candidates and will not have control over a number of key elements relating to the development and commercialization of these product candidates if we are able to achieve such third-party arrangements. A key aspect of our strategy is to seek collaborations with partners, such as large pharmaceutical companies, that are willing to conduct later-stage clinical trials and further develop and commercialize selected product candidates. Following completion of the Phase II clinical trial for MN-166 for the treatment of MS in the second quarter of 2008 and the acquisition of AV411 in December 2009, we have not undertaken, nor do we plan to undertake, any further significant clinical development activities for any of our product candidates other than MN-221 for the treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma and COPD exacerbations, other than those activities deemed necessary to maximize each product candidate’s value, until such time that we are successful in entering 36 Table of Contents into a partnership or collaboration to further development of such product candidates. To date, we have not entered into any such collaborative arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into any collaborations or otherwise monetize these product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all. By entering into a strategic collaboration with a partner, we may rely on the partner for financial resources and for development, regulatory and commercialization expertise. Even if we are successful in entering into a strategic collaboration for one of our product candidates, our partner may fail to develop or effectively commercialize the product candidate because such partner: • does not have sufficient resources or decides not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources; • decides to pursue a competitive potential product developed outside of the collaboration; • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; • determines that the market opportunity is not attractive; or • cannot manufacture the necessary materials in sufficient quantities from multiple sources or at a reasonable cost. We also face competition in our search for partners from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide, many of whom are larger and able to offer more attractive deals in terms of financial commitments, contribution of human resources, or development, manufacturing, regulatory or commercial expertise and support. If we are not successful in attracting partners and entering into collaborations on acceptable terms for these product candidates or otherwise monetizing these product candidates, we may not be able to complete development of or obtain regulatory approval for such product candidates. In such event, our ability to generate revenues from such products and achieve or sustain profitability would be significantly hindered. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair further the liquidity of our investment portfolio. All of our investment securities, which consist of auction rate securities, or ARS, are designated as trading securities. These ARS represent 100 percent of our overall investment portfolio. At December 31, 2009, approximately $26.8 million of our ARS and the ARS Put were classified as current assets because they can be readily converted to cash within 12 months. Of the approximately $2.1 million of ARS which continue to be classified as long-term assets as of December 31, 2009, approximately $1.8 million consisted of private placement investment securities. None of the underlying collateral for our ARS consisted of subprime mortgages or collateralized debt obligations. Due to continued negative conditions in the global credit markets, our ARS have continued to fail at auction with few to no trades in either the primary or the secondary markets. As a result, we have only been unable to liquidate at a loss a portion of ARS that was not subject to the ARS Rights Offer. As such we could be required to hold these securities until such time that they are redeemed by the issuer, successfully sold at auction, sold through a secondary market or ultimately mature. In addition, with the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 820, authoritative guidance for fair value, measurements and disclosures (formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, 157), we determined the fair value of our ARS portfolio primarily on Level 3 criteria, which resulted in our reliance on a discounted cash flow valuation model with assumptions related to interest rates, maturities and liquidity, determined by us based on the credit quality of the security, the credit quality of the associated insurer, if applicable, the respective prospectus and the credit market outlook. With all of our investment securities designated as trading securities, any additional increase or decrease in the fair value of our investment securities is recorded as either a gain or an impairment charge, respectively, in our consolidated statement of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a net gain on our 37 Table of Contents investment securities of approximately $3.5 million to increase the carrying value of our investment securities. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $3.2 million on the ARS Put to decrease its carrying value based on our discounted cash flow model with liquidity discount. In August 2008, UBS AG and its affiliates, or UBS, the brokerage firm through which we purchased the majority of its ARS investments, entered into a settlement with the SEC, the New York Attorney General and other state agencies. Under the settlement, UBS issued to us Auction Rate Security Rights, which would allow us to sell to UBS our ARS held in accounts with UBS, or the ARS Rights Offer. Pursuant to the ARS Rights Offer, we received the right to sell to UBS the ARS held in accounts with UBS at par value at any time during the period beginning June 30, 2010 and ending July 2, 2012, or the ARS Put. As part of the settlement, UBS also offered to us a no net cost loan program, or ARS Loan, whereby we would be able to borrow up to 75 percent of the market value, as determined by UBS at its sole discretion, of our ARS that have been pledged as collateral at an interest cost that would not exceed the interest being paid on the underlying ARS investments. In January 2009, we were approved for the ARS Loan in the amount of $15.9 million and drew down the entire preapproved amount. In addition, in February 2009, we borrowed an additional $2.2 million under the ARS Loan, bringing the total amount outstanding under the ARS Loan to $18.1 million, following UBS’ decision to increase our availability under the ARS Loan. All cash received under the ARS Loan was invested in money market accounts. At December 31, 2009, our ARS Loan balance was $17.6 million. UBS may demand full or partial payment of the ARS Loan, at its sole option and without cause, at any time. All ARS Loan advances are subject to collateral maintenance requirements. UBS may also, at any time, in its discretion, terminate and cancel the ARS Loan. If at any time UBS exercises its right to terminate the credit line agreement governing the ARS Loan, then UBS is required to provide, as soon as reasonably possible, alternative financing on substantially the same terms and conditions as those under the credit line agreement and the agreement will remain in full force and effect until such time as such alternative financing has been established. We cannot assure you that we will not default on our obligations under the credit line agreement, which could result in the acceleration of our repayment obligations, or that UBS will not call the amounts outstanding under the ARS Loan, either of which would negatively impact our financial condition and cash flow. In addition, we cannot assure you that UBS will consummate the ARS Rights Offer and repurchase its ARS subject to such offer at par value, or that we will be able to renew this facility at maturity on similar terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception. From our inception to December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $247.4 million. Our cash, cash equivalents, investment securities- current and ARS Put, net of the ARS Loan, totaled approximately $28.4 million at December 31, 2009. We intend to manage our product development programs such that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December 31, 2009 will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements through at least December 31, 2010. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could spend our available financial resources faster than we currently anticipate. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors including: • progress in, and the costs of, our ongoing and planned clinical trials and other research and development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of our product development programs; • our obligations under our license agreements, pursuant to which we may be required to make future milestone payments upon the achievement of various milestones related to clinical, regulatory or commercial events; 38 Table of Contents • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, including licensing and other arrangements, and to complete acquisitions of additional product candidates; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for clinical or commercial production of our product candidates; • the costs associated with expanding our management, personnel, systems and facilities; • the costs associated with any litigation; • the costs associated with the operations or wind-down of any business it may acquire; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities and commercialization activities if we obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through strategic collaborations, private or public sales of our securities, debt financings or licensing transactions, involving all or a portion of our product candidates, to the extent we are able to do so. We may not be successful in obtaining strategic collaboration agreements or in receiving milestone or royalty payments under such agreements. We cannot assure you that additional sources of capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If sources of capital are not available, we may not be in a position to pursue present or future business opportunities that require financial commitments, and we may be required to terminate, delay or reduce the scope of one or more of our product development programs; delay establishing sales and marketing capabilities or other activities to commercialize a product candidate; curtail our efforts to acquire new product candidates; or relinquish some or even all rights to our product candidates. The terms under which we raise additional capital may harm our business and may significantly dilute stockholders’ ownership interests. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may need to relinquish some rights to our product candidates, including commercialization rights, which may hinder our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and restrictive covenants and other financial terms that may impede our ability to operate our business. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. We are subject to stringent regulation of our product candidates, which could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We, our third-party manufacturers, service providers, suppliers and partners, and our product candidates are subject to stringent regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. None of our product candidates can be marketed in the United States until it has been approved by the FDA. None of our product candidates has been approved by the FDA to date, and we may never receive FDA approval for any of our product candidates. Obtaining FDA approval for a product takes many years of clinical development and requires substantial resources. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur or new information regarding the product candidate or the target indication may emerge, and we may need to perform additional, unanticipated non-clinical or clinical testing of our product candidates or amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Any additional unanticipated testing would add costs and could delay or result in the denial of regulatory approval for a product candidate. These regulatory 39 Table of Contents requirements may limit the size of the market for the product or result in the incurrence of additional costs. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could substantially reduce or negate our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our partners and our product candidates are subject to numerous FDA requirements, including requirements related to testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our partners and our product candidates. Given the number of recent high profile adverse safety events with certain drug products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, costly risk management programs, which may include safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, preapproval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. Furthermore, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs has resulted in the enactment of new legislation addressing drug safety issues, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007. This legislation provides the FDA with expanded authority over drug products after approval and the FDA’s exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, and increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements. Furthermore, we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from this or future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. In order to market any of our products outside of the United States, we and our strategic partners and licensees must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods beyond the requirements of the FDA and the time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country, including FDA approval in the United States, does not ensure regulatory approval in another. In addition, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. A product candidate may not be approved for all indications that we request, which would limit the uses of our product and adversely impact our potential royalties and product sales, and any approval that we receive may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or other countries, we may be subject to regulatory and other consequences, including fines and other civil penalties, delays in approving or failure to approve a product, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, injunctions and criminal prosecution, any of which would harm our business. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and we may incur additional development costs, experience delays in the commencement and completion of clinical trials, and be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates on our anticipated timeline if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines. We rely extensively on CROs, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other service providers to perform important functions related to the conduct of its clinical trials, the collection and analysis of data and the preparation of regulatory submissions. Although we design and manage our current clinical trials to ensure that each clinical trial is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol, we do not have the ability to conduct all aspects of our clinical trials directly for our product candidates. The FDA requires us and our CROs to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials 40 Table of Contents to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on CROs does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The CROs, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other service providers that we employ in the conduct of our clinical trials are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our product development programs. If any of these third parties fails to devote sufficient care, time and resources to our product development programs, if its performance is substandard, or if any third party is inspected by the FDA and found not to be in compliance with GCPs, it will delay the completion of the clinical trial in which they are involved and the progress of the affected development program. The CROs with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the clinical trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Any failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, the CROs, clinical investigators and other service providers may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may have competitive products under development or currently marketed, and our competitive position could be harmed if they assist our competitors. If any of these third parties does not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. In addition, while we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, we might not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without delays or additional expenditures if we were to seek such alternative sources. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates, which may result in delays in our clinical trials and the commercialization of products, as well as increased costs. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we do not intend to develop facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce, in collaboration with us, sufficient quantities of our product candidates for clinical trials, and we plan to contract with third-party manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of any product candidates approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. While we believe that there are competitive sources available to manufacture our product candidates, we may not be able to enter into arrangements without delays or additional expenditures. We cannot estimate these delays or costs with certainty. Reliance on third-party manufacturers limits our ability to control certain aspects of the manufacturing process and therefore exposes us to a variety of significant risks, including risks related to our ability to commercialize any products approved by regulatory authorities or conduct clinical trials, reliance on such third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, and the refusal or inability of a third-party manufacturer to supply our requirements on a long-term basis. In addition, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel and compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations. Also, our manufacturers may not perform as agreed. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, our ability to timely produce our product candidates for clinical trials and commercial sale may be interrupted, which could result in delayed clinical trials or receipt of regulatory approval and lost or delayed revenues. To date, we have entered into an agreement with Hospira for the development and supply of finished product of MN-221 for the treatment of acute exacerbations of asthma utilizing Hospira’s proprietary ADD-Vantage drug delivery system that we intend to use in clinical trials and the commercial market. In addition to Hospira’s proprietary drug delivery system, we anticipate entering into a commercial supply agreement for finished product of MN-221 in standard vials. However, other than Hospira, we do not have agreements established regarding commercial supply of finished product of MN-221 in standard vials or for the API or 41 Table of Contents finished product for any of our product candidates. In particular, pursuant to our license agreement with Kissei Pharmaceutical, Kissei Pharmaceutical has the exclusive right to manufacture the commercial supply of the API for MN-221. Therefore, we will need to successfully negotiate a commercial supply agreement with Kissei Pharmaceutical on commercially reasonable terms, or another third-party manufacturer in the event that we are unable to reach agreement with Kissei Pharmaceutical, in order to manufacture the API for MN-221 on a commercial scale if MN-221 is approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. We will also need to successfully negotiate a supply agreement with a third-party manufacturer on commercially reasonable terms in order to manufacture the finished product of MN-221 in standard vials. We may not be able to establish or maintain any commercial manufacturing and supply arrangements on commercially reasonable terms that we require for purposes of commercializing a product. Any failure by us to secure or maintain any such required commercial supply agreements could result in interruption of supply and lost or delayed revenues, which would adversely affect our business. Any problems or delays we experience in preparing for commercial-scale manufacturing of a product candidate may result in a delay in FDA or other regulatory approval of the product candidate or may impair our ability to manufacture commercial quantities, which would adversely affect our business. For example, our manufacturers will need to produce specific batches of a product candidate to demonstrate acceptable stability under various conditions and for commercially viable lengths of time. We and our third-party manufacturers will need to demonstrate to the FDA and other regulatory authorities this acceptable stability data for the product candidate, as well as validate methods and manufacturing processes, in order to receive regulatory approval to commercialize such product candidate. Our manufacturers are obligated to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs and, in some cases, International Convention on Harmonization, or ICH, standards. A failure of any of our third-party manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs and/or ICH standards and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in our ability to timely conduct and complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval of product candidates or launch of our products into the market. In addition, changing third-party manufacturers is difficult. For example, a change in third-party manufacturer for a particular product candidate requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with cGMPs, which may be costly and time-consuming and, in some cases, our manufacturers may not provide us with adequate assistance to transfer the manufacturing processes and procedures for our product candidates to new manufacturers or may possess intellectual property rights covering parts of these processes or procedures for which we may need to obtain a license. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities in other countries for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture such product candidate in larger quantities. We may not be able to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards in collaboration with our third-party manufacturers, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 Table of Contents Materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We rely on the third-party manufacturers of our product candidates to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the API and product candidates for our clinical trials, and we will rely on such manufacturers to purchase such materials to produce the API and finished product for any commercial distribution of our products if we obtain marketing approval. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time they need them in order to meet our required delivery schedule or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, testing of the affected product candidate would be delayed, which may significantly impact our ability to develop the product candidate. If we or our manufacturers are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for one of our products, the commercial launch of such product would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply of such product, which would harm our ability to generate revenues from such product and achieve or sustain profitability. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. Any of these restrictions or requirements could adversely affect our potential product revenues. For example, the label ultimately approved for MN-221 or MN-166/AV411, our other product candidates or any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, if any, may include a restriction on the terms of its use, or it may not include one or more of our intended indications. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such as cGMPs, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; • impose other civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. 43 Table of Contents Our product candidates, if approved for sale, may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues. If one of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of efficacy; • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indication; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • availability, cost and potential advantages of alternative treatments, including less expensive generic drugs; • pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control; • effectiveness of our or any of our partners’ sales and marketing strategies; • the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authority in other countries; and • the availability of adequate third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate that we develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as, or is perceived as being as beneficial as, the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product candidate, if approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, likely will not achieve market acceptance. Our ability to effectively promote and sell any approved products will also depend on pricing and cost-effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and third-party payors, our ability to generate revenues from that product would be substantially reduced. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. If our products are not accepted by the market or if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from government and other third-party payors, our revenues and profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, less clinically effective or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payors may not approve our products for coverage and reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in the use of our products 44 Table of Contents could cause our sales to suffer. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of our products profitable. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products, may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products. Many third-party payors, including HMOs, are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including the use of formularies. The market for our products depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payors provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies of HMOs and other third-party payors. This increased competition has led to a downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payors are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. If we fail to identify and license or acquire other product candidates, we will not be able to expand our business over the long term. Because we do not have internal discovery capabilities, our business over the long term is substantially dependent on our ability to license or acquire product candidates and further develop them for commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right product candidates. We have limited experience identifying, negotiating and implementing economically viable product candidate acquisitions or licenses, which is a lengthy and complex process. Also, the market for licensing and acquiring product candidates is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We may not have the requisite capital resources to consummate product candidate acquisitions or licenses that we identify to fulfill our strategy. Moreover, product candidate acquisitions that we do complete involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the development program for the acquired product candidate into our existing operations; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • risks of entering new markets or technologies and of receiving regulatory approval; • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs; and • delays that may result from our having to perform unanticipated preclinical trials or other tests on the product candidate. If we are not successful in identifying and licensing or acquiring other product candidates over the long term, we will not be able to grow our revenues with sales from new products beyond those revenues, if any, from any approved products derived from our existing product candidates, and we may fail to achieve or sustain profitability. We are dependent on our management team, particularly Yuichi Iwaki, M.D., Ph.D., and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate Dr. Iwaki and other key management and scientific staff, our product development programs may be delayed and we may be unable to develop successfully or commercialize our product candidates. We are dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Yuichi Iwaki, M.D., Ph.D., a founder of the company and our President and Chief Executive Officer, who has been instrumental in our ability to in-license product candidates from Japanese pharmaceutical companies and secure financing from Japanese institutions. The relationships that certain of our key managers 45 Table of Contents have cultivated with pharmaceutical companies from whom we license product candidates and to whom we expect to out-license product candidates make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. We are also substantially dependent on the continued services of our existing clinical development personnel because of the highly technical nature of our product development programs. We are not presently aware of any plans of our executive officers or key personnel to retire or leave employment with the company. Each of our executive officers is party to an employment agreement that continues in effect until the earliest of termination of employment upon (i) consent of the parties, (ii) cause or other material breach of the agreement, (iii) death or permanent disability and (iv) three months’ written notice. Following termination of employment, these individuals may engage in other businesses that may compete with us. If we acquire or license new product candidates, our success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel to manage the development of these new product candidates. In particular, our product development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly experienced clinical development and regulatory personnel. However, we face competition for experienced scientists and other technical and professional personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Diego, California area, where our corporate headquarters is located. Our short operating history and the uncertainties attendant to being a development-stage biopharmaceutical company could impair our ability to attract and retain personnel and impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in our product development and clinical strategies. These third parties are not our employees and may have commitments to, or contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with our product candidates. Although we have employment agreements with key members of management, each of our employees, subject to applicable notice requirements, may terminate his or her employment at any time. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management. If we lose any of our key management personnel, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, which would adversely affect our business. If we are unable to establish our sales and distribution capabilities, we will be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates. To date, we have not sold, marketed or distributed any pharmaceutical products. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates or acquiring other approved products, we will need to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or with partners in order to commercialize an approved product. The acquisition or development of an effective sales and marketing infrastructure will require a significant amount of our financial resources and time and could negatively impact our commercialization efforts, including delay of a product launch. We may be unable to establish and manage a sufficient or effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating demand for our products, therefore hindering our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, if we are unable to develop internal sales capabilities, we will need to contract with third parties or establish a partnership to market and sell the product. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate any product revenues, may generate increased expenses and may never become profitable. In addition, although we intend to establish strategic collaborations to market any products approved for sale by regulatory authorities outside of the United States, we may be required to market our product candidates outside of the United States directly if we are unable to establish such collaborations. In that event, we may need to build a corresponding international sales and marketing capability with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. 46 Table of Contents We may need to change our business practices to comply with health care fraud and abuse regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we market one or more of our product candidates, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including the Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, as amended. These laws may impact any proposed sales, marketing and education programs as well as other aspects of our operations. The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as the “safe harbors in certain instances” to shield healthcare providers and other parties from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute in certain instances. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing or causing to be filed a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing of such actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claims Act action. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. In addition to the laws described above, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, imprisonment and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative 47 Table of Contents and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. Another example of proposed reform that could affect our business is the current discussion of drug reimportation into the United States. In 2000, Congress directed the FDA to adopt regulations allowing the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at lower prices. Although the Secretary of Health and Human Services has refused to implement this directive, the House of Representatives passed a similar bill that does not require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to act in July 2003. The reimportation bills have not yet resulted in any new laws or regulations; however, these and other initiatives could decrease the price we or any potential collaborators receive for our product candidates if and when they are approved for sale, adversely affecting our future revenue growth and potential profitability. Moreover, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. We may be sued for product liability, which could result in substantial liabilities that exceed our available resources and damage our reputation. The development and commercialization of drug products entails significant product liability risks. Product liability claims may arise from use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials and the commercial sale of any approved products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • termination of clinical trial sites or entire clinical trial programs; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We currently have insurance that covers our clinical trials. We believe our current insurance coverage is reasonably adequate at this time; however, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. In addition, we will need to increase and expand this coverage as we commence additional clinical trials, as well as larger scale clinical trials, and in the event that any of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale. This insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the regulatory approval or commercialization of products that we or one of our collaborators develop. Successful product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Liability from such claims could exceed our total assets if we do not prevail in any lawsuit brought by a third party alleging that an injury was caused by one of our product candidates. We may need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As of March 15, 2010, we had 24 full-time employees, one part-time employee and one intern. We may need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and 48 Table of Contents fund our operations and clinical trials, continue our development activities and commercialize our product candidates. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. For example, we may hire additional personnel in clinical development, regulatory affairs and business development to further strengthen our core competencies or choose to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for certain of our product candidates. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and product development programs requires that we: • manage our clinical trials effectively; • manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors and other third parties; • ensures that its consultants, CROs and other service providers successfully carry out their contractual obligations, provide high quality results and meet expected deadlines; and • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale, which may impact our ability to timely achieve our development and commercialization goals, if at all. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance from period to period. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • the status of development of our product candidates and, in particular, the advancement or termination of activities related to our product development programs and the timing of any milestone payments payable under our licensing agreements; • the execution of other collaboration, licensing and similar arrangements and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • variations in the level of expenses related to our product development programs; • the unpredictable effects of collaborations during these periods; • the timing of our satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements, if at all; • the rate of expansion of our clinical development and other internal research and development efforts; • the costs of any litigation; • the effect of competing technologies and products and market developments; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions. We believe that quarterly or yearly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. Our management has broad discretion over the use of our cash, and we may not use our cash effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our management has significant flexibility in applying our cash resources and could use these resources for corporate purposes that do not increase our market value or in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. We may use our cash resources for corporate purposes that do not yield a significant return or any return at all for our stockholders, which may cause our stock price to decline. 49 Table of Contents We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, The Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, and the Osaka Securities Exchange, or OSE, and incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and appropriate corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and may make it more difficult and expensive for us to renew our director and officer liability insurance, and result in imposition of reduced policy limits and coverage. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. As a result, we are required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. While we anticipate maintaining the integrity of our internal control over financial reporting and all other aspects of Section 404 applicable to us, we cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our control systems in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC, the OSE or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. As a smaller reporting company, our report regarding internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2009 was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary SEC rules. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs, including delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the combined clinical development programs based on ibudalist. We may not be able to successfully secure a strategic collaboration to advance the combined ibudalist development programs. Following completion of the Phase II clinical trial of MN-166 for the treatment of MS in the second quarter of 2008 and the acquisition of AV411 in December 2009, we have not undertaken, nor do we plan to undertake, any further significant clinical development of MN-166/AV411 until such time that we secure a strategic collaboration to advance the combined clinical development of MN-166/AV411 ibudalist-based development program. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure such a strategic collaboration or otherwise further advance, or recognize value from, a combined MN-166/AV411 clinical development program. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. There is the risk that our patents (both those owned by us and those in-licensed) may not provide a competitive advantage, including the risk that our patents expire before we obtain regulatory and marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, particularly our in-licensed patents. Also, our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. Composition of matter patents on APIs may provide protection for pharmaceutical products without regard to formulation, method of use, or other type of limitation. We do not have compound patent protection for the API in our MN-166/AV411 and MN-001 product candidates, although we do have patent protection for a particular crystalline polymorph of MN-001. As a result, competitors that obtain the requisite regulatory approval will be able to offer products with the same API as found in our MN-166/AV411 and MN-001 product candidates so long as such competitors do not infringe any methods of use, methods of manufacture, formulation or, in the case of MN-001, specific polymorph patents that we hold or have exclusive rights to through our licensors. For example, we currently rely on a method of use patent for MN-166, which covers the use of the API found in our MN-166 product candidate for the treatment of MS. We also have a method of use patent for AV411 for the treatment of neuropathic pain syndromes. It is our policy to consult with our licensors in the maintenance of granted patents we have licensed and in their pursuit of patent applications that we have licensed, but each of our licensors generally remains primarily responsible for or in control of the maintenance of the granted patents and prosecution of the applications. We have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that each licensor devotes on our behalf, and a licensor may not assign as great a priority to prosecution of these patent applications as we would if we were undertaking such prosecution ourselves. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that our licensed patents will be maintained and that any additional patents will ever mature from our licensed applications. Issued U.S. patents require the payment of maintenance fees to continue to be in force. We typically rely on our licensors to do this and their failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not timely maintained. Many foreign patent offices also require the payment of periodic annuities to keep patents and patent applications in good standing. As we generally do not maintain control over the payment of annuities, we cannot be certain that our licensors will timely pay such annuities and that the granted patents and pending patent applications will not become abandoned. For example, certain annuities were not paid in a timely manner with respect to foreign patents licensed under MN-002 (the active metabolite of MN-001). In addition, our licensors may have selected a limited amount of foreign patent protection, and therefore applications have not been filed in, and foreign patents may not have been perfected in, all commercially significant countries. The patent protection of our product candidates and technology involves complex legal and factual questions. Most of our license agreements give us a right, but not an obligation, to enforce our patent rights. To the extent it is necessary or advantageous for any of our licensors’ cooperation in the enforcement of our patent rights, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on enforcing our patent rights. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third party infringement, which may be difficult to detect, especially for infringement of patent claims for methods of manufacturing. Additionally, challenges may be made to the ownership of our intellectual property rights, our ability to enforce them or our underlying licenses, which in some cases have been made under foreign laws and may provide different protections than that of U.S. law. We cannot be certain that any of the patents or patent applications owned by us or our licensors related to our product candidates and technology will provide adequate protection from competing products. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we or our licensors can: • obtain and maintain patents to protect our product candidates; 51 Table of Contents • obtain and maintain any required or desirable licenses to use certain technologies of third parties, which may be protected by patents; • protect our trade secrets and know-how; • operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others; • enforce the issued patents under which we hold rights; and • develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example: • we or our licensor might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or issued patents; • we or our licensor might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any patents under which we hold rights may not provide us with a basis for maintaining market exclusivity for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties as invalid, not infringed or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; or • any of the issued patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable or may be circumvented successfully in light of the continuing evolution of domestic and foreign patent laws. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. Because we operate in the highly technical field of research and development of small molecule drugs, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Further, we have limited control, if any, over the protection of trade secrets developed by our licensors. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. There is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product 52 Table of Contents candidates, their methods of use, manufacturing or other technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of such third parties. There are many patents relating to chemical compounds and methods of use. If our compounds or their methods of use or manufacture are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses under such patents. We have not conducted comprehensive searches for unexpired patents issued to third parties relating to our product candidates. Consequently, no assurance can be given that unexpired, third-party patents containing claims covering our product candidates, their methods of use or manufacture do not exist. Moreover, because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, and because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications that will mature into issued patents that relate to our current or future product candidates and which could have a material effect in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates. The owner of a patent that is arguably infringed can bring a civil action seeking to enjoin an accused infringer from importing, making, marketing, distributing, using or selling an infringing product. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to seek a declaratory judgment concerning the scope, validity or enforceability of third-party proprietary rights. Similarly, we may be subject to claims that we have inappropriately used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of third parties. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to: • payment of actual damages, royalties, lost profits, potential enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees, if a case against us is determined by a judge to be exceptional; • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell our products; • having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on reasonable or commercially acceptable terms; or • significant cost and expense, as well as distraction of our management from our business. As a result, we could lose our ability to develop and commercialize current or future product candidates. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investment in Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. Despite the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market and the Hercules Market of the Osaka Securities Exchange in Japan, trading volume in our securities has been light and an active trading market may not develop for our common stock. In December 2009, our average trading volume was approximately 16,800 shares per day on the Nasdaq and approximately 62,100 shares per day on the Hercules Market of the Osaka Stock Exchange. 53 Table of Contents The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and early-stage drug discovery and development companies like us in particular, have historically been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. For example, since the date of our initial public offering in Japan on February 4, 2005 through December 31, 2009, our common stock has traded as high as approximately $42.00 and as low as approximately $1.40. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • the development status of our product candidates, including clinical trial results and determinations by regulatory authorities with respect to our product candidates, and particularly our prioritized product candidates; • the initiation, termination, or reduction in the scope of any collaboration arrangements or any disputes or developments regarding such collaborations; • FDA or foreign regulatory actions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates; • announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products or other material events by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments concerning our intellectual property rights; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock markets; • any potential delisting of our securities; • changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations of our financial performance; • additions or departures of key personnel; • discussions of our business, management, products, financial performance, prospects or stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • public concern as to, and legislative action with respect to, the pricing and availability of prescription drugs or the safety of drugs and drug delivery techniques; or • regulatory developments in the United States and in foreign countries. Broad market and industry factors, as well as economic and political factors, also may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 54 Table of Contents In addition, on August 24, 2009, The Pennsylvania Avenue Funds, an Avigen stockholder, filed a complaint in Alameda County Superior Court alleging that Avigen’s directors breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the proposed transaction with us. On October 15, 2009, The Pennsylvania Avenue Funds filed an amended complaint adding us as a defendant. In the amended complaint, The Pennsylvania funds alleged, among other things, that we aided and abetted the alleged breach of fiduciary duties by the Avigen directors. Avigen and The Pennsylvania Avenue Funds have signed a stipulation of settlement agreement and moved the court for preliminary approval. The Court heard oral argument on the Motion for Preliminary Approval of Settlement and held a case management conference on March 8, 2010, during which the Court raised a few issues regarding the settlement provisions. The parties have addressed those concerns and will appear before the Court on April 6, 2010 for preliminary approval of the settlement and a further case management conference. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline and may make it difficult to sell your shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should we desire to do so. In addition, it may be difficult, or even impossible, to find a buyer for shares of our common stock. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our current employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the terms of the underlying agreements governing the grants and the restrictions of the securities laws. In addition, our directors and officers may in the future establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Our stockholder rights plan and anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more complicated and the removal and replacement of our directors and management more difficult. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock or adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and management. These provisions: • establish that members of the board of directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of stockholders owning at least a majority of our capital stock; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors in a discriminatory fashion designed to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent or delay a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or Amended and Restated Bylaws except with 66 2/3 percent stockholder approval; and • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms. 55 Table of Contents Effective November 24, 2006, our board of directors adopted our stockholder rights plan. On March 30, 2007, our stockholders ratified the plan at our annual meeting of stockholders. Under the plan, we declared a dividend distribution of one “right” for each outstanding share of our common stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 11, 2006. Since that time, we have issued one right with each newly issued share of common stock. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth (1/1,000) of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $77.00, subject to adjustment. In general, under the plan, if a person or affiliated group acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of our shares of common stock, then each right (other than those held by such acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock (or, under certain circumstances, a combination of securities or other assets) having a value of twice the underlying purchase price of the right. In addition, if following the announcement of the existence of an acquiring person or affiliated group we are involved in a business combination or sale of 50 percent or more of our assets or earning power, each right (other than those held by the acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock of the acquiring entity having a value of twice the underlying purchase price of the right. The board of directors also has the right, after an acquiring person or affiliated group is identified, to cause each right to be exchanged for common stock or substitute consideration. We may redeem the rights at a price of $0.001 per right prior to the identification of an acquiring person or affiliated group. The rights expire on November 23, 2016. If our stockholders do not re-ratify our stockholder rights plan at our 2010 annual meeting, our rights will expire on the date of such meeting. We also may be subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15 percent or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In any event, these provisions may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Any such delay or prevention could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 