Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report and our other public filings with the SEC. In the near-term, the success of our business will depend on many factors, including the following risks: • we are largely dependent on the success of our two prioritized product candidates, MN-221 for the treatment of status asthmaticus and MN-166 for the treatment of MS, and we cannot be certain that our planned clinical development programs will demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that these product candidates are safe and effective or that either product candidate will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized; • delays in the commencement, enrollment or completion of clinical testing for either of our prioritized product candidates, could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval; • the outcome of final analyses of data from our clinical trials may vary from our initial analyses, and the FDA may not agree with our interpretation of these results; • ongoing or planned clinical trials for our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, or may be inconsistent with previous clinical trial results, and we may decide, or the FDA may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or to modify our ongoing clinical trials; • even if our product candidates are approved by regulatory authorities, we expect intense competition for our targeted indications; and • we will require substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our development programs and commercialization efforts. Each of these factors, as well as other factors that may impact our business, are described in more detail in the following discussion. Although the factors highlighted above are among the most significant, any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this Annual Report and those we may make from time to time, and you should consider all of the factors described when evaluating our business. Risks Related to Our Business We expect our net losses to continue for at least several years, and we are unable to predict the extent of our future losses. We are a development-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we had a net loss of $48.9 million and our accumulated deficit was approximately $205.1 million. If we are successful in raising additional capital to support such expansion, our annual net losses may increase over the next several years as we expand our infrastructure and incur significant costs related to the development of our product candidates. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with planned clinical trials for our prioritized product candidates and any other development activities that we may initiate. In addition, we expect our general and administrative expenses to increase as a result of several factors, including our research and development activities, our business development activities and the increased costs associated with operating 31 Table of Contents as a dual-listed public company. Consequently, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. We do not have any products that are approved for commercial sale and therefore do not expect to generate any revenues from product sales in the foreseeable future, if ever. We have not received, and do not expect to receive for at least the next several years, if at all, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates. To date, we have not generated any product revenues and have funded our operations primarily from sales of our securities. Our only source of revenues since inception has been from development management services rendered to Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation and Argenes, Inc., both Japanese pharmaceutical companies, in connection with their clinical development of pharmaceutical product candidates. We have completed our agreement with Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation and terminated our agreement with Argenes, Inc.; therefore, we will not generate any further revenues from these agreements. We anticipate that, prior to our commercialization of a product candidate, out-licensing upfront and milestone payments will be our primary source of revenue. To obtain revenues from sales of our product candidates, we must succeed, either alone or with third parties, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing and marketing drugs with commercial potential. We may never succeed in these activities, and we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations or achieve profitability. We are largely dependent on the success of our two prioritized product candidates, MN-221 and MN-166, and we cannot be certain that either of these product candidates will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We currently have no products for sale, and we cannot guarantee that we will ever have any drug products approved for sale. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries with regulations differing from country to country. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA for a product candidate from the FDA. Obtaining FDA approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. We currently have two prioritized product candidates, MN-221 for the treatment of status asthmaticus and MN-166 for the treatment of MS, and the success of our business currently depends on their successful development and commercialization. We have not submitted an NDA or received marketing approval for either of these two prioritized product candidates. In addition, we are not currently planning to pursue any further clinical development of MN-166 for the treatment of MS beyond the ongoing Phase II clinical trial until such time that we are able to secure a strategic collaboration to further development of MN-166, which may delay the process of completing clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval for this product candidate. The clinical development programs for MN-221 and MN-166 may not lead to commercial products for a number of reasons, including if our clinical trials fail to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that these product candidates are safe and effective. As a result, we may fail to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. We may also fail to obtain the necessary approvals if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance our product candidates through the clinical trial process. Any failure by us or delay in completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approval for either MN-221 or MN-166 would have a material and adverse impact on our business. In order to commercialize a therapeutic drug successfully, a product candidate must receive regulatory approval after the successful completion of clinical trials, which are long, complex and costly, have a high risk of failure and can be delayed, suspended or terminated at any time. Our product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. To receive regulatory approval for the 32 Table of Contents commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in human patients to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the product candidate. To date, we have obtained regulatory authorization to conduct clinical trials for eight of our product development programs. IND applications were approved and are active for seven of our product candidates. We also have a Clinical Trial Authorization, or CTA, which is the equivalent of a U.S. IND, approved and active to conduct a Phase II clinical trial for MN-166 in patients with MS in five countries in Eastern Europe and had two CTAs approved in Canada to conduct the two recently completed Phase I clinical trials for MN-246 in healthy subjects. It may take years to complete the clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug, and delays or failure can occur at any stage, which may result in our inability to market and sell any products derived from any of our product candidates that are ultimately approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing. For example, in October 2007, we announced that our Phase IIa clinical trial of MN-305 for the treatment of insomnia failed to achieve statistical significance in its primary endpoint; as a result, we are no longer pursuing the development of MN-305 for the treatment of insomnia. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA to the FDA and even fewer are approved for commercialization. Interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier clinical trials. In connection with clinical trials for each of our product candidates, we face many risks, including the risks that: • the product candidate may not prove to be effective in treating the targeted indication; • patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested; • the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier trials; • the FDA may not agree with our proposed development plans or accept the results of completed clinical trials; and • our planned clinical trials and the data collected from such clinical trials may be deemed by the FDA or other regulatory agencies not to be sufficient, which would require additional development for the product candidate before it can be evaluated in late stage clinical trials or before the FDA will consider an application for marketing approval. If we experience delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials, we could incur significantly higher product development costs and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates could be delayed or limited. We do not know whether enrollment in our ongoing and planned clinical trials for our product candidates will be completed on time, or whether our additional planned and ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates will be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of other reasons, including delays in: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence or amend a clinical trial; • reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials; 33 Table of Contents • retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but who may be prone to withdraw due to the treatment protocol, lack of efficacy, personal issues, or side effects from the therapy or who are lost to further follow-up; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct or amend a clinical trial at a prospective site. In addition, a clinical trial may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests by them for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results, which may result in the imposition of a clinical hold on the IND for any clinical trial, as well as the inability to resolve any outstanding concerns with the FDA so that a clinical hold already placed on the IND may be lifted and the clinical trial may begin; • inspections of our own clinical trial operations, the operations of our CROs, or our clinical trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, which may result in the imposition of a clinical hold or potentially prevent us from using some of the data generated from our clinical trials to support requests for regulatory approval of our product candidates; • our failure or inability to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • lower than anticipated enrollment or retention rates of patients in clinical trials; • new information suggesting unacceptable risk to subjects or unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a trial presents unacceptable health risks; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; and • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur or new information regarding the product candidate or the target indication may emerge, and we may need to perform additional, unanticipated non-clinical or clinical testing of our product candidates or amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Any additional unanticipated testing would add costs and could delay or result in the denial of regulatory approval for a product candidate. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to institutional review boards for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we do not successfully complete clinical development of our product candidates, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market products and generate revenues from such products. We may also fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance our product candidates through the clinical trial process. If we experience delays in the completion of our clinical trials for a product candidate, the commercial prospects for such product candidate may be harmed, we may incur increased costs for development of such product candidate, and our ability to obtain regulatory approval for such product candidate could be delayed or limited. In addition, many of the factors that cause or lead to delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval for a product candidate. Finally, even if we believe that the preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for a product candidate, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve such product candidate for commercial sale in any jurisdiction, which would limit our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our business. 34 Table of Contents The loss of any rights to develop and market any of our product candidates could significantly harm our business. We license the rights to develop and market our product candidates. Currently, we have licensed rights relating to eight compounds for the development of the following ten product candidates: • MN-221 for status asthmaticus and preterm labor licensed from Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; • MN-166 for MS licensed from Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; • MN-001 for bronchial asthma and IC licensed from Kyorin Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; • MN-029 for solid tumors licensed from Angiogene Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.; • MN-305 for anxiety disorders/insomnia licensed from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation; • MN-246 for urinary incontinence licensed from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation; • MN-447 for thrombotic disorders licensed from Meiji Seika Kaisha, Ltd.; and • MN-462 for thrombotic disorders licensed from Meiji Seika Kaisha, Ltd. We are obligated to develop and commercialize these product candidates in accordance with mutually agreed upon terms and conditions. Our ability to satisfy some or all of the terms and conditions of our license agreements is dependent on numerous factors, including some factors that are outside of our control. Any of our license agreements may be terminated if we breach our obligations under the agreement materially and fail to cure any such breach within a specified period of time. If any of our license agreements is terminated, we would have no further rights to develop and commercialize the product candidate that is the subject of the license. The termination of any of our license agreements would significantly and adversely affect our business. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception. From our inception to December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $205.1 million. Our cash and marketable securities totaled approximately $70.6 million at December 31, 2007. Although we intend to manage our product development programs such that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements through at least December 31, 2008, we may require significant additional financing to fund our operations thereafter. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors including: • progress in, and the costs of, our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • the scope, prioritization and number of our product development programs; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for clinical or commercial production of our product candidates; • the costs associated with any litigation; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities and commercialization activities if we obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. 35 Table of Contents Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through strategic collaborations, private or public sales of our securities, debt financings or licensing transactions, involving all or a portion of our product candidates, to the extent we are able to do so. We cannot be certain that additional sources of capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If sources of capital are not available, we may not be in a position to pursue present or future business opportunities that require financial commitments, and we may be required to: • terminate or delay or reduce the scope of the product development program, including clinical trials, for one or more of our product candidates; • delay establishing sales and marketing capabilities or other activities to commercialize a product candidate; • curtail our efforts to acquire new product candidates; or • relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. The terms under which we raise additional capital may harm our business and may significantly dilute stockholders’ ownership interests. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may need to relinquish some rights to our product candidates, including commercialization rights, which may harm our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that may impede our ability to operate our business. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio Our marketable securities available-for-sale consist of auction rate securities, corporate debt and government sponsored securities with AAA ratings at the time they were acquired. As of December 31, 2007, our short-term investments included $45.0 million of auction rate securities, or ARS, issued primarily by municipalities and universities that were issued through syndicated offerings and $2.7 million of ARS issued through private placements. ARS are generally long-term debt instruments and provide liquidity through a “Dutch” auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, typically 7, 28, 35 or 49 days. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors, including ourselves, from liquidating certain holdings of ARS. At December 31, 2007, none of our ARS had been placed on credit watch or downgraded, although the $2.7 million of private placement ARS have experienced failed auctions since August 2007, and the private placement issuers have continued to pay interest in accordance with their stated terms. At December 31, 2007, we lowered only the carrying value of the private placement ARS by recording an unrealized loss of $0.1 million in accumulated other comprehensive loss in our consolidated balance sheet because we have the intent and ability to hold the private placement ARS through 2008. As such, we do not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we were informed that there was insufficient demand at auction for $11.5 million of our ARS. As a result, these affected securities are currently not liquid, and we could be required to hold them for an undetermined period of time. However, through February 29, 2008, $12.6 million of our total ARS portfolio of $47.7 million were successfully auctioned and sold at par, which was equivalent to their carrying value. With the sale of these securities, we reduced our overall ARS exposure by $12.6 million, as the proceeds were reinvested in cash equivalents. 36 Table of Contents At February 29, 2008, due to continued auction failures of our private placement ARS and the downgrading of the companies that insure certain of our ARS, the quality rating of $0.7 million of municipal ARS went from AAA to A- and the quality rating of $0.5 million of private placement ARS went from AAA to A, we experienced an additional $0.2 million decline in the carrying value of our ARS as their estimated market value had decreased. With the uncertainty that exists in the global credit market today, we will continue to closely monitor the market and evaluate our ARS portfolio on an ongoing basis, and we will adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge that would be recorded as realized loss in our consolidated statement of operations should any decline in market value be considered other-than-temporary. In addition, any liquidity issues which extend into 2009 or beyond could adversely affect our business. We will depend on strategic collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize selected product candidates and will not have control over a number of key elements relating to the development and commercialization of these product candidates if we are able to achieve such third-party arrangements. A key aspect of our strategy will be to seek collaborations with partners, such as large pharmaceutical organizations, that are willing to conduct later-stage clinical trials and further develop and commercialize selected product candidates. At present, we are not planning to undertake any further clinical development activities, other than those activities deemed necessary to maximize each product candidate’s value, for any of our product candidates other than MN-221 for the treatment of status asthmaticus until such time that we are successful in entering into a partnership or collaboration to further development of such product candidates. To date, we have not entered into any such collaborative arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into any collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all. By entering into a strategic collaboration with a partner, we may rely on the partner for financial resources and for development, regulatory and commercialization expertise. Even if we are successful in entering into a strategic collaboration for one of our product candidates, our partner may fail to develop or effectively commercialize the product candidate because such partner: • does not have sufficient resources or decides not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources; • decides to pursue a competitive potential product developed outside of the collaboration; • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; • determines that the market opportunity is not attractive; or • cannot manufacture the necessary materials in sufficient quantities from multiple sources or at a reasonable cost. In addition, the licensors of our MN-221, MN-305 and MN-246 product candidates have a right to co-promote these product candidates pursuant to the terms of their respective license agreements, which may make it more difficult to enter into a collaboration with any third parties. We also face competition in our search for partners from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide, many of whom are larger and able to offer more attractive deals in terms of financial commitments, contribution of human resources, or development, manufacturing, regulatory or commercial expertise and support. If we are not successful in attracting partners and entering into collaborations on acceptable terms for these product candidates, we may not be able to complete development of or obtain regulatory approval for such product candidates. In such event, our ability to generate revenues from such products and achieve or sustain profitability would be significantly hindered. 37 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and perform data collection and analysis. We may incur additional development costs, experience delays in the commencement and completion of clinical trials, and be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates on our anticipated timeline if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines. We rely on CROs, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other service providers to conduct our clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. Although we design and manage our current clinical trials, we do not have the ability to conduct clinical trials directly for our product candidates. In the course of clinical development, we have contracted and will continue to contract with a number of these organizations, including: Accelsiors CRO and Consultancy Services of Budapest, Hungary; Pharmaceutical Research Associates, Inc. of Lenexa, Kansas; Fulcrum Pharma Developments, Inc. of Durham, North Carolina; Paragon Biomedical, Inc. of Irvine, California; Quintiles, Inc. of Morrisville, North Carolina; PharmaNet, Inc. of Princeton, New Jersey; and Synteract, Inc. of Carlsbad, California. The FDA requires us and our CROs to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on CROs does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The CROs, clinical investigators and other service providers that we employ in the conduct of our clinical trials are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our development programs. If these third parties fail to devote sufficient care, time and resources to our development programs, if their performance is substandard, or if they are inspected by the FDA and found not to be in compliance with GCPs, it will delay the completion of the clinical trial in which they are involved and the progress of the affected development program. The CROs with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the clinical trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, the CROs, clinical investigators and other service providers may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may have competitive products under development or currently marketed, and our competitive position could be harmed if they assist our competitors. If any of these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. In addition, while we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, we might not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without delays or additional expenditures if we were to seek such alternative sources. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates, which may result in delays in our clinical trials and the commercialization of products, as well as increased costs. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we do not intend to develop facilities for the manufacture of product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce, in collaboration with us, sufficient quantities of our product candidates for clinical trials, and we plan to contract with third-party manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of any product candidates approved by the FDA for commercial sale. While we believe that there are competitive sources available to manufacture our product candidates, we may not be able to enter into arrangements without delays or additional expenditures. We cannot estimate these delays or costs with certainty. To date, these manufacturers have met the requirements of our product development programs; however, we have only required the manufacture of our product candidates in very limited volume for preclinical and clinical studies, and we do not have any long-term commitments from our suppliers of clinical trial materials or guaranteed prices for our product candidates. We do not yet have agreements established regarding commercial supply of any of our product candidates and may not be able to establish or maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements on commercially 38 Table of Contents reasonable terms for any of our product candidates. In particular, pursuant to our license agreement with Kissei Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Kissei Pharmaceutical has the exclusive right to manufacture the commercial supply of the API for MN-221. Therefore, we will need to successfully negotiate a commercial supply agreement with Kissei Pharmaceutical on commercially reasonable terms, or another third-party manufacturer in the event that we are unable to reach agreement with Kissei Pharmaceutical, in order to manufacture MN-221 on a commercial scale if MN-221 is approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. Any problems or delays we experience in preparing for commercial-scale manufacturing of a product candidate may result in a delay in FDA approval of the product candidate or may impair our ability to manufacture commercial quantities, which would adversely affect our business. For example, our manufacturers will need to produce specific batches of our product candidates to demonstrate acceptable stability under various conditions and for commercially viable lengths of time. We and our contract manufacturers will need to demonstrate to the FDA and other regulatory authorities this acceptable stability data for our product candidates, as well as validate methods and manufacturing processes, in order to receive regulatory approval to commercialize any of our product candidates. Reliance on third-party manufacturers limits our ability to control certain aspects of the manufacturing process and therefore exposes us to a variety of significant risks, including risks related to our ability to commercialize any products approved by regulatory authorities or conduct clinical trials, reliance on such third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, and the refusal or inability of a third-party manufacturer to supply our requirements on a long-term basis. If any of these risks occur, our product supply will be interrupted and may result in lost or delayed revenues and delayed clinical trials or receipt of regulatory approval. In addition, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel and compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations. Also, our manufacturers may not perform as agreed. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, our ability to timely produce our product candidates for clinical trials and commercial sale may be impacted. Our manufacturers are obligated to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated cGMPs and, in some cases, International Convention on Harmonization, or ICH, standards. A failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval of product candidates or the ultimate launch of our products into the market. In addition, changing contract manufacturers is difficult. For example, a change in contract manufacturer for a particular product candidate requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with cGMPs, which may be costly and time-consuming and, in some cases, our manufacturers may not provide us with adequate assistance to transfer the manufacturing processes and procedures for our product candidates to new manufacturers or may possess intellectual property rights covering parts of these processes or procedures for which we may need to obtain a license. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. If any of our product candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture them in larger quantities. We may not be able to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards in collaboration with our third-party manufacturers, including the incidence of 39 Table of Contents manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Materials necessary to manufacture our products may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our products. We rely on the third-party manufacturers for our products to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the compounds for our clinical trials, and we will rely on such manufacturers to purchase such materials to produce the compounds for commercial distribution if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, testing of the affected product candidate would be delayed, which may significantly impact our ability to develop the product candidate. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for one of our products, the commercial launch of such product would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply of such product, which would harm our ability to generate revenues from such product and achieve or sustain profitability. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for MN-221 or MN-166, or our other product candidates, could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. Our product candidates, if approved for sale, may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues. Even if one of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of efficacy; • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indication; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • availability, cost and potential advantages of alternative treatments, including cheaper generic drugs; • pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control; • effectiveness of our or any of our partners’ sales and marketing strategies; 40 Table of Contents • the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authority in other countries; and • the availability of adequate third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate that we develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product candidate, if approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, likely will not achieve market acceptance. Our ability to effectively promote and sell any approved products will also depend on pricing and cost-effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and third-party payors, our ability to generate revenues from that product would be substantially reduced. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. If our products are not accepted by the market or if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from government and other third-party payors, our revenues and profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, less clinically effective, or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payors may not approve our products for coverage and reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in the use of our products could cause our sales to suffer. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of our products profitable. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products, may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products. Many third-party payors, including HMOs, are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including, for instance, the use of formularies. The market for our products depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payors provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies of HMOs and other third-party payors. This increased competition has led to a downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payors are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product’s indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval 41 Table of Contents studies. Any of these restrictions or requirements could adversely affect our potential product revenues. For example, the label ultimately approved for MN-221 or MN-166, our other product candidates or any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, if any, may include a restriction on the term of its use, or it may not include one or more of our intended indications. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers’ facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such as cGMPs, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters or untitled letters; • require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance; • impose other civil or criminal penalties; • suspend regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. If we fail to identify and license or acquire other product candidates, we will not be able to expand our business over the long term. Given that we do not have internal discovery capabilities, our business over the long term is substantially dependent on our ability to license or acquire product candidates and further develop them for commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right product candidates. We have limited experience identifying, negotiating and implementing economically viable product candidate acquisitions or licenses, which is a lengthy and complex process. Also, the market for licensing and acquiring product candidates is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We may not have the requisite capital resources to consummate product candidate acquisitions or licenses that we identify to fulfill our strategy. Moreover, product candidate acquisitions that we do complete involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the development program for the acquired product candidate into our existing operations; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • risks of entering new markets or technologies; • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs; and • delays that may result from our having to perform unanticipated preclinical trials or other tests on the product candidate. 42 Table of Contents If we are not successful in identifying and licensing or acquiring other product candidates over the long term, we will not be able to grow our revenues with sales from new products beyond those revenues, if any, from our existing product candidates, and we may fail to achieve or sustain profitability. We are dependent on our management team, particularly Yuichi Iwaki, M.D., Ph.D., and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate Dr. Iwaki and other key management and scientific staff, our product development programs may be delayed and we may be unable to develop successfully or commercialize our product candidates. We are dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Yuichi Iwaki, M.D., Ph.D., a founder of the company and our President and Chief Executive Officer, who has been instrumental in our ability to in-license product candidates from Japanese pharmaceutical companies and secure financing from Japanese institutions. The relationships that certain of our key managers have cultivated with pharmaceutical companies from whom we license product candidates and to whom we expect to out-license product candidates make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. We are also substantially dependent on the continued services of our existing project management personnel because of the highly technical nature of our product development programs. If and when we acquire or license new product candidates, our success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel to manage the development of these new product candidates. In particular, our product development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly experienced development and regulatory personnel. In addition, we may need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our clinical development and other development activities. We face competition for experienced scientists and other technical and professional personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Diego, California area, where our corporate headquarters is located. Our short operating history and the uncertainties attendant to being a development-stage biopharmaceutical company could impair our ability to attract and retain personnel and impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives. Although we have employment agreements with key members of management, each of our employees, subject to applicable notice requirements, may terminate his or her employment at any time. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management. If we lose any of our key management personnel, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, which would adversely affect our business. If we are unable to establish our sales and distribution capabilities, we will be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates. To date, we have not sold, marketed or distributed any pharmaceutical products. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates or acquiring other approved products, we will need to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or with partners. The development of an effective sales and marketing force will require a significant amount of our financial resources and time. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating demand for our products, therefore hindering our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. Although we intend to establish strategic collaborations to market any products approved for sale by regulatory authorities outside of the United States, we may be required to market our product candidates outside of the United States directly if we are unable to establish such collaborations. In that event, we may need to build a corresponding international sales and marketing capability with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. 43 Table of Contents We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As of March 7, 2008, we had 25 employees, all of whom but one were full-time employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations and clinical trials, continue our development activities and commercialize our product candidates. Our management, personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. For example, we may hire additional personnel in clinical development, regulatory affairs and business development to further strengthen our core competencies or choose to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for certain of our product candidates. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and product development programs requires that we: • manage our clinical trials effectively; • manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors and other third parties; and • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale, which may impact our ability to timely achieve our development and commercialization goals, if at all. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance from period to period. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • the status of development of our product candidates and, particularly, the timing of any milestone payments to be paid under our licensing agreements; • the execution of other collaboration, licensing and similar arrangements and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • variations in the level of expenses related to our product development programs; • the unpredictable effects of collaborations during these periods; • the timing of our satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements, if at all; • the rate of expansion of our clinical development and other internal research and development efforts; • the costs of any litigation; • the effect of competing technologies and products and market developments; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions. If our quarterly or annual operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly or yearly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. 44 Table of Contents Our management has broad discretion over the use of our cash and we may not use our cash effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our management has significant flexibility in applying our cash resources and could use these resources for corporate purposes that do not increase our market value or in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. We may use our cash resources for corporate purposes that do not yield a significant return or any return at all for our stockholders, which may cause our stock price to decline. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased costs and risks as a result of being a public company, particularly in the context of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and other matters. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, as well as rules and regulations implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of SOX and rules adopted or proposed by the SEC and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, have resulted in, and will continue to result in, increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of these rules and respond to their requirements. We issued an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of SOX with this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2007, including the opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm thereon, the preparations for which resulted in increased costs to us, which may continue to be reflected in our costs of operations. Given the risks inherent in the design and operation of internal control over financial reporting, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is uncertain. If our internal controls are not designed or operating effectively, we may not be able to issue an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required or we or our independent registered public accounting firm may determine that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. In addition, our registered public accounting firm may either disclaim an opinion on our internal controls or may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and which could affect our ability to run our business as we otherwise would like to. New rules could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the coverage that is the same or similar to our current coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees, and as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the total amount of the costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with these rules and regulations. Under the corporate governance standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market, a majority of our board of directors and each member of our audit committee must be an independent director. If any vacancies on our board or our audit committee occur that need to be filled by independent directors, we may encounter difficulty in attracting qualified persons to serve on our board and, in particular, our audit committee. If we fail to attract and retain the required number of independent directors, we may be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings and delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. There is the risk that our patents (both those owned by us and those in-licensed) may not provide a competitive advantage, including the risk that our patents expire before we obtain regulatory and marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, particularly our in-licensed patents. Also, our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. Composition of matter patents on APIs may provide protection for pharmaceutical 45 Table of Contents products without regard to formulation, method of use, or other type of limitation. For some of our product candidates, patent protection is no longer available for the APIs in such product candidates without regard to specific formulation or method of use. As a result, competitors that obtain the requisite regulatory approval will be able to offer products with the same active ingredient as found in some of our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use, method of manufacture or formulation patents that we hold or have exclusive rights to through our licensors. For example, we currently do not have any unqualified composition of matter claims for MN-166. We are aware that Avigen, Inc. is conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials for a product that contains the active compound contained in MN-166 to treat neuropathic pain. For our licensed patents, it is our policy to consult with our licensors in the maintenance of granted patents we have licensed, and in their pursuit of patent applications that we have licensed, but each of our licensors generally remains primarily responsible for or in control of the maintenance of the granted patents and prosecution of the applications. We have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that each licensor devotes on our behalf, and they may not assign as great a priority to prosecution of these patent applications as we would if we were undertaking such prosecution ourselves. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that our licensed patents will be maintained and that any additional patents will ever mature from our licensed applications. Issued U.S. patents require the payment of maintenance fees to continue to be in force. We typically rely on our licensors to do this and their failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not timely maintained. Many foreign patent offices also require the payment of periodic annuities to keep patents and patent applications in good standing. As we generally do not maintain control over the payment of annuities, we cannot be certain that our licensors will timely pay such annuities and that the granted patents and pending patent applications will not become abandoned. As an example, it appears that certain annuities were not paid in a timely manner with respect to foreign patents licensed under MN-002 (the active metabolite of MN-001). In addition, our licensors may have selected a limited amount of foreign patent protection, and therefore applications have not been filed in, and foreign patents may not have been perfected in, all commercially significant countries. The patent protection of our product candidates and technology involves complex legal and factual questions. Most of our license agreements give us a right, but not an obligation, to enforce our patent rights. To the extent it is necessary or advantageous for any of our licensors’ cooperation in the enforcement of our patent rights, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on enforcing our patent rights. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third party infringement, which may be difficult to detect, especially for infringement of patent claims for methods of manufacturing. Additionally, challenges may be made to the ownership of our intellectual property rights, our ability to enforce them or our underlying licenses, which in some cases have been made under foreign laws and may provide different protections than that of U.S. law. We cannot be certain that any of the patents or patent applications owned by us or our licensors related to our product candidates and technology will provide adequate protection from competing products. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we or our licensors can: • obtain and maintain patents to protect our product candidates; • obtain and maintain any required or desirable licenses to use certain technologies of third parties, which may be protected by patents; • protect our trade secrets and know-how; • operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others; • enforce the issued patents under which we hold rights; and • develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. 46 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example: • we or our licensor might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or issued patents; • we or our licensor might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any patents under which we hold rights may not provide us with a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties as invalid, or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; or • any of the issued patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable or may be circumvented successfully in light of the continuing evolution of domestic and foreign patent laws. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. Because we operate in the highly technical field of research and development of small molecule drugs, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Further, we have limited control, if any, over the protection of trade secrets developed by our licensors. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. There is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, their methods of use, manufacturing or other technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of such third parties. There are many patents relating to chemical compounds and methods of use. If our compounds or their methods of use or manufacture are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses under such patents. We have not conducted comprehensive searches of patents issued to third parties relating to our product candidates. Consequently, no assurance can be given that third-party patents containing claims covering our product candidates, their methods of use or manufacture do not exist or have not been filed and will not be issued in the future. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, and because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications that will mature into issued patents that relate to our current or future product 47 Table of Contents candidates that could have a material effect in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates. A patent holder could prevent us from importing, making, using or selling the patented compounds. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Similarly, we may be subject to claims that we have inappropriately used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of third parties. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to: • payment of actual damages, royalties, lost profits, potential treble damages and attorneys’ fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent rights; • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell our products; • we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all; or • significant cost and expense, as well as distraction of our management from our business. As a result, we could be prevented from developing and commercializing current or future product candidates. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to stringent regulation of our product candidates, which could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We, our third-party manufacturers, contractors, suppliers and partners, and our product candidates are subject to stringent regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. None of our product candidates can be marketed in the United States until it has been approved by the FDA. None of our product candidates has been approved, and we may never receive FDA approval for any of our product candidates. Obtaining FDA approval for a product takes many years of clinical development and requires substantial resources. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use and labeling of such products. Additionally, the FDA may require post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. These regulatory requirements may limit the size of the market for the product or result in the incurrence of additional costs. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could substantially reduce or negate our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our partners and our product candidates are subject to numerous FDA requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our partners and our product candidates. Given the number of recent high profile adverse safety events with certain drug products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, costly risk management programs, which may include safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, preapproval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. Furthermore, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs has resulted in the enactment of new legislation addressing drug safety issues, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007. This new legislation provides the FDA with expanded authority over drug products after approval and the FDA’s exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and 48 Table of Contents approval, and increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements. Furthermore, we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from this or future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. In order to market any of our products outside of the United States, we and our strategic partners and licensees must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods and the time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Approval by the FDA does not automatically lead to the approval of regulatory authorities outside of the United States, and approval by regulatory authorities outside of the United States does not automatically lead to FDA approval. In addition, regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. A product candidate may not be approved for all indications that we request, which would limit the uses of our product and adversely impact our potential royalties and product sales, and any approval that we receive may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries, among other things, we may be subject to fines and other civil penalties, delays in approving or failure to approve a product, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, injunctions and criminal prosecution, any of which would harm our business. We may need to change our business practices to comply with health care fraud and abuse regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are successful in achieving approval to market one or more of our product candidates, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as the “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. 49 Table of Contents The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing or causing to be filed a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, sometimes known as “relators” or, more commonly, as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing of qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claims Act action. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties between $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. In addition to the laws described above, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, they may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunities. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense, and we expect such competition to continue to increase. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors have products or are pursuing the development of drugs that target the same diseases and conditions that are the focus of our product development programs. Our competitors have products that have been approved or are in advanced development and may succeed in developing drugs that are more effective, safer and more affordable or more easily administered than ours, or that achieve patent protection or commercialization sooner than our products. Our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any products that we may develop. In many of our target disease areas, potential competitors are working to develop new compounds with different mechanisms of action and attractive efficacy and safety profiles. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, research and development resources (including personnel and technology), clinical trial experience, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities and production facilities than we do. Smaller companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through proprietary research discoveries and collaboration arrangements with large pharmaceutical and established biotechnology companies. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective and less costly than ours and be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. We also expect to face similar competition in our efforts to identify appropriate collaborators or partners to help develop or commercialize our product candidates. 50 Table of Contents Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete. Biopharmaceutical technologies have undergone rapid and significant change, and we expect that they will continue to do so. As a result, there is significant risk that our current product candidates may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by new discoveries before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. If any of our product candidates is rendered obsolete by advancements in biopharmaceutical technologies, our business will be adversely affected. Consumers may sue us for product liability, which could result in substantial liabilities that exceed our available resources and damage our reputation. The development and commercialization of drug products entails significant product liability risks. Liability claims may arise from use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the commercial sale of those products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • termination of clinical trial sites or entire clinical trial programs; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We currently have insurance that covers our clinical trials. We believe our current insurance coverage is reasonably adequate at this time; however, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. In addition, we will need to increase and expand this coverage as we commence additional clinical trials, as well as larger scale clinical trials, and in the event that any of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale. This insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the regulatory approval or commercialization of products that we or one of our collaborators develop. Successful product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Liability from such claims could exceed our total assets if we do not prevail in any lawsuit brought by a third party alleging that an injury was caused by one or more of our products. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. Another example of proposed reform that could affect our business is the current discussion of drug reimportation into the United States. In 2000, Congress directed the FDA to adopt regulations allowing the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at lower prices. Although the Secretary of Health and Human Services has refused to implement this directive, the House of 51 Table of Contents Representatives passed a similar bill that does not require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to act in July 2003. The reimportation bills have not yet resulted in any new laws or regulations; however, these and other initiatives could decrease the price we or any potential collaborators receive for our product candidates once they are approved for sale, adversely affecting our future revenue growth and potential profitability. Moreover, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. Risks Related to the Market for our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. Prior to our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market on December 7, 2006, there was no active trading market for our common stock in the United States, as our common stock had only been listed on the on the Hercules Market of the Osaka Securities Exchange in Japan. Despite the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market in December 2006, trading volume on the Nasdaq Global Market has been light and an active trading market may not develop for our common stock. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and early-stage drug discovery and development companies like us in particular, have historically been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. For example, since the date of our initial public offering in Japan through December 31, 2007, our common stock has traded as high as approximately $42.00 and as low as approximately $4.29. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • the development status of our product candidates, including clinical trial results and determinations by regulatory authorities with respect to our drug candidates; • the initiation, termination, or reduction in the scope of any collaboration arrangements or any disputes or developments regarding such collaborations; • FDA or international regulatory actions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates; • announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products or other material events by our competitors or us; • disputes or other developments concerning our proprietary rights; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations of our financial performance; • additions or departures of key personnel; • discussions of our business, management, products, financial performance, prospects or stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • public concern as to, and legislative action with respect to, the pricing and availability of prescription drugs or the safety of drugs and drug delivery techniques; or • regulatory developments in the United States and in foreign countries. Broad market and industry factors, as well as economic and political factors, also may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a 52 Table of Contents particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become subject to this type of litigation, which is often extremely expensive and diverts management’s attention. If the holders of the shares purchased prior to our initial public offering were to sell all or a significant portion of their shares at one time, there would be significant downward pressure on our stock price and it may be difficult to sell your shares. On September 19, 2005, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 to register 6,733,536 shares of common stock for resale from time to time, which registration statement was subsequently declared effective by the SEC. The registered shares were beneficially owned by 47 holders. On November 23, 2005, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 to register 1,335,657 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants held by three parties, of which warrants held by our two founders that relate to 1,285,657 shares were exercisable at $1.00 per share and a warrant held by a separate investor that relates to 50,000 shares was exercisable at $10.00 per share. At December 31, 2007, there were 50,000 warrants outstanding held by a separate investor. All of the warrants held by our founders have been exercised, and the warrant held by a separate investor expires in May 2009. All of such shares, other than shares held by our affiliates, may also be sold from time to time in exempt transactions pursuant to Rule 144(k) promulgated by the SEC. The trading volume for our stock is low, with an average trading volume of approximately 11,000 shares per day on the Hercules Market of the Osaka Securities Exchange and approximately 22,000 shares per day on the Nasdaq Global Market during the month of December 2007. If the holders of such shares, to the extent such shares have not been sold already, were to attempt immediately to sell their shares, there would be significant downward pressure on our stock price and it may be difficult, or even impossible, to find a buyer for shares of our common stock. Our stockholder rights plan and anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more complicated and the removal and replacement of our directors and management more difficult. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock or adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and management. These provisions: • establish that members of the board of directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of stockholders owning at least a majority of our capital stock; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors in a discriminatory fashion designed to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent or delay a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms. Effective November 24, 2006, our board of directors adopted our stockholder rights plan. On March 30, 2007, our stockholders ratified the plan at our annual meeting of stockholders. Under the plan, we declared a dividend distribution of one “Right” for each outstanding share of our common stock to stockholders of record at 53 Table of Contents the close of business on December 11, 2006. Since that time, we have issued one Right with each newly issued share of common stock. Each Right, when exercisable, entitles the holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth (1/1,000) of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $77.00, subject to adjustment. In general, under the plan, if a person or affiliated group acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our shares of common stock, then each Right (other than those held by such acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock (or, under certain circumstances, a combination of securities or other assets) having a value of twice the underlying purchase price of the Right. In addition, if following the announcement of the existence of an acquiring person or affiliated group we are involved in a business combination or sale of 50% or more of our assets or earning power, each Right (other than those held by the acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock of the acquiring entity having a value of twice the underlying purchase price of the Right. The board of directors also has the right, after an acquiring person or affiliated group is identified, to cause each Right to be exchanged for common stock or substitute consideration. We may redeem the Rights at a price of $0.001 per Right prior to the identification of an acquiring person or affiliated group. The Rights expire on November 23, 2016. We also may be subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In any event, these provisions may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Any such delay or prevention could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biopharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 