Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The following section describes some, but not all, of the risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business We expect our net losses to continue for at least several years and we are unable to predict the extent of our future losses. We are a development-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had a net loss of $35.7 million. At December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $156.2 million. Our annual net losses may increase over the next several years as we expand and incur significant clinical development costs. We expect our development expenses to increase in connection with our planned clinical trials for our product candidates and any other development projects that we may initiate. In addition, we expect to incur increased general and administrative expenses including the increased costs to operate as a dual-listed public company. Consequently, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. We do not have any products that are approved for commercial sale and therefore do not expect to generate any revenues from product sales in the foreseeable future. We have not received, and do not expect to receive for at least the next several years, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates. To date, we have not generated any product revenues and have funded our operations primarily from sales of our securities. Our only source of revenues since inception has been from development management services rendered to Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation and Argenes, Inc., both Japanese pharmaceutical companies, in connection with their clinical development of pharmaceutical product candidates. Our contract with Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation has been completed and we do not expect to generate further revenues from that agreement. We anticipate that, prior to our commercialization of a product candidate, out-licensing upfront and milestone payments will be our primary source of revenue. To obtain revenues from sales of our product candidates, we must succeed, either alone or with third parties, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing and marketing drugs with market potential. We may never succeed in these activities, and may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations or achieve profitability. The loss of any rights to develop and market any of our product candidates could significantly harm our business. We license the rights to develop and market our product candidates. Currently, we have licensed rights relating to eight compounds for the development of the following ten product candidates: • MN-001 for bronchial asthma and interstitial cystitis licensed from Kyorin Pharmaceutical; • MN-221 for status asthmaticus and preterm labor licensed from Kissei Pharmaceutical; • MN-166 for multiple sclerosis licensed from Kyorin Pharmaceutical; • MN-029 for solid tumors licensed from Angiogene Pharmaceuticals; • MN-305 for anxiety disorders and insomnia licensed from Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation; 27 Table of Contents • MN-246 for urinary incontinence licensed from Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation; • MN-447 for thrombotic disorders licensed from Meiji Seika Kaisha, Ltd.; and • MN-462 for thrombotic disorders licensed from Meiji Seika Kaisha, Ltd. We are obligated to develop and commercialize these product candidates in accordance with mutually agreed upon terms and conditions. Our ability to satisfy some or all of the terms and conditions of our licensing arrangements is dependent on numerous factors, including some factors that are outside of our control. Our licensing arrangements may be terminated if we breach our obligations under the agreements materially and fail to cure a breach within a specified period of time. If any of our license agreements is terminated, we would have no further rights to develop and commercialize the product candidate that is the subject of the license. The termination of any of our license agreements would significantly and adversely affect our business. In order to commercialize a therapeutic drug successfully, a product candidate must undergo clinical trials, which are long, complex and costly, manifest a high risk of failure and can be delayed or suspended. Eight of our product candidates are in preclinical or clinical development, the process that is required to receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. Our two most recent product candidates are in preclinical development. The regulatory approval process is long, complex and costly. It may take several years to complete the clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug, and delays or failure can occur at any stage, which may result in our inability to market and sell products derived from our product candidates and to generate product revenues. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of a NDA to the FDA, and even fewer are approved for commercialization. Interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier trials. In connection with clinical trials, we face risks that: • a product candidate may not prove to be efficacious; • patients may die or suffer other adverse effects for reasons that may or may not be related to the product candidate being tested; • the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier trials; • the FDA may not agree with our proposed development plans or accept the results of completed clinical studies; and • our planned clinical studies may be deemed by the FDA not to be sufficient and our product candidates may require additional development before they can be successful in late stage clinical studies or before the FDA can consider the results from these studies as the basis for approval. To date, we have regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials for eight of our product development programs. IND applications were approved and are active for seven product candidates. We also have Clinical Trial Authorizations, or CTAs, the equivalent of a U.S. IND, approved and active to conduct a Phase II study for MN-166 in patients with multiple sclerosis in five countries in Eastern Europe and a CTA approved in Canada to conduct a Phase I study for MN-246 in healthy subjects. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of other reasons, including delays in: • demonstrating sufficient safety to persuade regulatory authorities to allow a clinical trial to begin; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and clinical trial sites; 28 Table of Contents • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • obtaining sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. Once a clinical trial has begun, it may be delayed, suspended or terminated due to a number of factors, including: • ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests by them for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results; • our failure or inability to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements; • lower than anticipated retention rates of patients in clinical trials; • serious adverse events or side effects experienced by participants; or • insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials. Many of these factors described above may also ultimately lead to denial of regulatory approval of a current or potential product candidate. If we experience delays in our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. If we fail to identify and license or acquire other product candidates, we will not be able to expand our business over the long term. Given that we do not have internal discovery capabilities, our business over the long term is substantially dependent on our ability to license or acquire product candidates and further develop them for commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right product candidates. We have limited experience identifying, negotiating and implementing economically viable product candidate acquisitions or licenses, which is a lengthy and complex process. Also, the market for licensing and acquiring product candidates is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We may not have the requisite capital resources to consummate product candidate acquisitions or licenses that we identify to fulfill our strategy. Moreover, product candidate acquisitions that we do complete involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the development program for the acquired product candidate into our existing operations; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • risks of entering new markets or technologies; • inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs; and • delays that may result from our having to perform unanticipated preclinical trials or other tests on the product candidate. If we are not successful in identifying and licensing or acquiring other product candidates over the long term, we will not be able to grow our revenues with sales from new products beyond those revenues, if any, from our existing product candidates and we may fail to achieve or sustain profitability. 29 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception. From our inception to December 31, 2006, we have an accumulated deficit of $156.2 million. Although we presently believe our existing cash and investments will be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash requirements at least through December 31, 2008, we will require significant additional financing to fund our operations thereafter. Our future capital requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors including: • progress in, and the costs of, our clinical trials; • the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for clinical or commercial production; • the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities if we obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through strategic collaborations, private or public sales of our securities, debt financings or by licensing all or a portion of our product candidates, to the extent we are able to do so. We cannot be certain that additional sources of capital will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If sources of capital are not available, we may not be in a position to pursue present or future business opportunities that require financial commitments and we may be required to: • terminate or delay clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates; • delay establishing sales and marketing capabilities; • curtail our efforts to acquire new product candidates; or • relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. The terms under which we raise additional capital may harm our business and may significantly dilute stockholders’ ownership interests. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may need to relinquish some rights to our product candidates, including commercialization rights, which may harm our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that may impede our ability to operate our business. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. We will depend on strategic collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize selected product candidates and will not have control over a number of key elements relating to the development and commercialization of these product candidates. A key aspect of our strategy will be to seek collaborations with partners, such as large pharmaceutical organizations, that are willing to conduct later-stage clinical trials and further develop and commercialize our product candidates. To date, we have not entered into any such collaborative arrangements. By entering into these strategic collaborations, we may rely on our partners for financial resources and for development, regulatory and commercialization expertise. Our partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our product candidates because they: • do not have sufficient resources or decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources; 30 Table of Contents • decide to pursue a competitive potential product that has been developed outside of the collaboration; • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; • determine that the market opportunity is not attractive; or • cannot manufacture the necessary materials in sufficient quantities from multiple sources or at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to enter into collaborations on acceptable terms, if at all. We also face competition in our search for partners from other organizations worldwide, many of whom are larger and are able to offer more attractive deals in terms of financial commitments, contribution of human resources, or development, manufacturing, regulatory or commercial expertise and support. If we are not successful in attracting partners and entering into collaborations on acceptable terms, we may not be able to complete development of, or commercialize one or more of, our product candidates. In such event, our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability would be significantly hindered. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and perform data collection and analysis, which may result in costs and delays that may hamper our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. Although we design and manage our current clinical trials, we do not have the ability to conduct clinical trials directly for our product candidates. We will rely on contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. In the course of clinical development, we have contracted and will continue to contract with a number of these organizations, including: Accelsiors CRO and Consultancy Services of Budapest, Hungary; Pharmaceutical Research Associates, Inc. of Lenexa, Kansas; Fulcrum Pharma Developments, Inc. of Durham, North Carolina; Paragon, Inc. of Irvine, California; Quintiles, Inc. of Morrisville, North Carolina and SFBC International of Princeton, New Jersey. Our clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or terminated if: • the third parties upon whom we rely do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines; • such third parties need to be replaced; or • the quality or accuracy of the data obtained by the third parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. Failure to perform by the third parties upon whom we rely may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. While we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, if we were to seek such alternative sources, we might not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without delays or additional expenditures. Our product candidates, if approved for sale, may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues. Even if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including: • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • availability and cost of alternative treatments, including cheaper generic drugs; 31 Table of Contents • pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control; • effectiveness of our or any of our partners’ sales and marketing strategies; and • the availability of adequate third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate that we develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product likely will not achieve market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from that product candidate would be substantially reduced. If our products are not accepted by the market or if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from government and other third-party payors, our revenues and profitability will suffer. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on the extent to which appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for our products and related treatments are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party payors will consider our products cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, less clinically effective, or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payors may not approve our products for coverage and reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in the use of our products could cause our sales to suffer. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of our products profitable. Also, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products, may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products. Many third-party payors, including in particular HMOs, are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including, for instance, the use of formularies. The market for our products depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payors provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies of HMOs and other third-party payors. This increased competition has led to a downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payors are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. We are dependent on our management team, particularly Yuichi Iwaki, M.D., Ph.D., and if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate Dr. Iwaki and other key management and scientific staff, our drug development programs may be delayed and we may be unable to develop successfully or commercialize our product candidates. We are dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Yuichi Iwaki, M.D., Ph.D., a founder of the Company and the Executive Chairman of our board of directors and our President and Chief Executive Officer, who has been instrumental in our ability to in-license product candidates from Japanese pharmaceutical companies and secure financing from Japanese institutions. The relationships that certain of our key managers have cultivated with pharmaceutical companies from whom we license product candidates and to whom we expect to out-license product candidates make us particularly dependent upon their continued employment with us. We are also substantially dependent on the continued services of our existing project management personnel because of the highly technical nature of our product development programs. 32 Table of Contents If and when we acquire or license new product candidates, our success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel to manage the development of these new product candidates. In particular, our drug development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly experienced development and regulatory personnel. In addition, we will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our clinical development and other development activities. We face competition for experienced scientists and other technical and professional personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Diego, California area, where our offices are located. Our short operating history and the uncertainties attendant to being a development-stage biopharmaceutical company could impair our ability to attract and retain personnel and impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives. Although we have employment agreements with key members of management, each of our employees, subject to applicable notice requirements, may terminate his or her employment at any time. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management. If we lose any of our key management personnel, we may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business would be harmed. If we are unable to establish our sales and distribution capabilities, we will be unable to successfully commercialize our product candidates. To date, we have not sold, marketed or distributed any pharmaceutical products. If we are successful in developing and obtaining regulatory approvals for the product candidates in our programs or acquire other products, we may need to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or with partners. Developing an effective sales and marketing force will require a significant amount of our financial resources and time. We may be unable to establish and manage an effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating demand for our products, therefore, hindering our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. Although we intend to establish strategic collaborations to market the products in our programs outside the United States, if we are unable to establish such collaborations, we may be required to market our product candidates outside of the United States directly. In that event, we may need to build a corresponding international sales and marketing capability with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We will need to expand and effectively manage our operations and facilities in order to advance our drug development programs, achieve milestones under our collaboration agreements, facilitate additional collaborations and pursue other development activities. For example, we intend to hire additional personnel in clinical development, regulatory affairs and corporate development to further strengthen our core competencies. Similarly, we are likely to hire additional management and administrative personnel to manage our business and affairs as we continue to grow. In addition, we may choose to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for the product candidates in our programs. The scope and timing of these hires is highly uncertain and remains subject to the success of our current product candidate development programs. To manage our growth, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. Meeting our public reporting obligations and other regulatory requirements in the United States and Japan places additional demands on our limited resources. We may not successfully manage the expansion of our operations and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. 33 Table of Contents We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance from period to period. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period include: • the status of development of our product candidates and, particularly, the timing of any milestone payments to be paid under our licensing agreements; • the incurrence of clinical expenses that could fluctuate significantly from period to period; • the unpredictable effects of collaborations during these periods; • the timing of our satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements, if at all; • the rate of expansion of our clinical development and other internal development efforts; • the effect of competing technologies and products and market developments; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions. We believe that quarterly or yearly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Relying on third-party manufacturers may result in delays in our clinical trials and product introductions as well as increased costs. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we do not intend to develop facilities for the manufacture of product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We are contracting with third-party manufacturers to produce, in collaboration with us, sufficient quantities of our product candidates for clinical trials. While we believe that there are competitive sources available to manufacture our product candidates, we may not be able to enter into arrangements without delays or additional expenditures. We cannot estimate these delays or costs with certainty. To date, these manufacturers have met the requirements of our programs; however, we have only required the manufacture of our product candidates in very limited volume because we do not have any commercialized product. Our manufacturers will be obliged to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated or International Convention on Harmonization, or ICH, current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. A failure of any of our contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in clinical trials, or in obtaining regulatory approval of product candidates or the ultimate launch of our products into the market. In addition, changing contract manufacturers is difficult. For example, doing so requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with cGMPs, which may be costly and time-consuming, and in some cases our manufacturers may not provide us with adequate assistance to transfer the manufacturing processes and procedures for our products to new manufacturers, or may possess intellectual property rights covering parts of these processes or procedures for which we may need to obtain a license. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. If any of these product candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture them in larger quantities. We may not be able to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require 34 Table of Contents additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Our product candidates will require precise, high quality manufacturing. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Materials necessary to manufacture our products may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our products. We rely on the manufacturers for our products to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the compounds for our clinical trials and for commercial distribution, if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our products would be delayed, significantly impacting our ability to develop the product candidate. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our products, the commercial launch of our products would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply of our products, which would harm our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. We will incur increased costs and risks as a result of being a public company, particularly in the context of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, as well as rules and regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events also could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new rules and regulations and cannot predict the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Section 404 of SOX requires us to include an internal controls report from management in our annual report on Form 10-K, and we will be required to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures. Given the risks inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting is uncertain. If our internal controls are not designed or operating effectively, we would be required to disclose that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. In addition, our registered public accounting firm may either disclaim an opinion as it relates to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls or may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and which could affect our ability to run our business as we otherwise would like to. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights. There is the risk that our patents may not provide a competitive advantage, including the risk that our patents expire before we obtain regulatory and marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates. 35 Table of Contents Our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. Composition of matter patents on active pharmaceutical ingredients may provide protection for pharmaceutical products without regard to formulation, method of use, or other type of limitation. For some of our products, patent protection is no longer available for the active pharmaceutical ingredients in our products without regard to specific formulation or method of use. As a result, competitors that obtain the requisite regulatory approval will be able to offer products with the same active ingredient as some of our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any method of use, method of manufacture or formulation patents that we hold or have exclusive rights to through our licensors. For our licensed patents, it is our policy to consult with our licensors in the maintenance of granted patents we have licensed, and in their pursuit of patent applications that we have licensed, but each of our licensors generally remains primarily responsible for or in control of the maintenance of the granted patents and prosecution of the applications. We have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that each licensor devotes on our behalf, and they may not assign as great a priority to prosecution of these patent applications as we would if we were undertaking such prosecution ourselves. As a result of this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that our licensed patents will be maintained and that any additional patents will ever be issued from our licensed applications. Issued U.S. patents require the payment of maintenance fees to continue their validity. We typically rely on our licensors to do this and their failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not maintained. Many foreign patent offices also require the payment of periodic annuities to maintain patents and patent applications. As we generally do not maintain control for the payment of annuities, we cannot assure you that our licensors will timely pay such annuities and that the pending patents and patent applications will not become abandoned. It appears that certain annuities were not paid in a timely manner with respect to foreign patents licensed under our MN-002 program. In addition, our licensors may have selected a limited amount of foreign patent protection and therefore, applications have not been filed in, and foreign patents may not have been perfected in, all countries. The patent protection of our product candidates and technology involves complex legal and factual questions. Most of our license agreements give us a right, but not an obligation, to enforce our patent rights. To the extent it is necessary or advantageous for any of our licensors’ cooperation in the enforcement of our patent rights, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on enforcing our patent rights. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third party infringement, which may be difficult to detect, especially for infringement of patent claims for methods of manufacturing. Additionally, challenges may be made to the ownership of our intellectual property rights, our ability to enforce them, or our underlying licenses, which in some cases have been made under foreign laws, and may provide different protections than that of U.S. law. We cannot be certain that any of the patents or patent applications owned by us or our licensors related to our product candidates and technology will provide adequate protection from competing products. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we or our licensors can: • obtain and maintain patents to protect our product candidates; • obtain and maintain any required or desirable licenses to use certain technologies of third parties, which may be protected by patents; • protect our trade secrets and know-how; • operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others; • enforce the issued patents under which we hold rights; and • develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or issued patents; 36 Table of Contents • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any patents under which we hold rights may not provide us with a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties as invalid, or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; • any of the issued patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable or may be circumvented successfully; or • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how may also prove to be very important to our future research and development and commercialization activities. However, we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with all of our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Further, we have limited control, if any, over the protection of trade secrets developed by our licensors. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. There is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we are not currently subject to any pending litigation, and are not aware of any threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, their methods of use, manufacturing or other technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. There are many patents relating to chemical compounds and methods of use. If our compounds, their methods of use or manufacture are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages. We have not conducted comprehensive searches of patents issued to third parties relating to our product candidates. Consequently, no assurance can be given that third-party patents containing claims covering our product candidates, their methods of use or manufacture do not exist, have not been filed and issued in the future. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, and because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications that will mature into issued patents that relate to our current or future product candidates that could have a material effect in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates. A patent holder could prevent us from importing, making, using or selling the patented compounds. We may need to resort to litigation to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Similarly, we may be subject to claims that we have inappropriately used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of third parties. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to: • payment of actual damages, royalties, lost profits, potentially treble damages and attorneys’ fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent rights; 37 Table of Contents • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell our products; • we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms if at all; or • significant cost and expenses, as well as distraction of our management from our business. As a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future products. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to stringent regulation of our product candidates, which could delay the development and commercialization of our products. We, our third-party manufacturers, contractors, suppliers, partners, and our product candidates are subject to stringent regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. None of our product candidates can be marketed in the United States until approved by the FDA. None of our product candidates has been approved, and we may never receive FDA approval for any of our product candidates. Obtaining FDA approval typically takes many years and requires substantial resources. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use and labeling of such products. Additionally, the FDA may require post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. These regulatory requirements may limit the size of the market for the product or result in the incurrence of additional costs. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could substantially reduce our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our partners, and our product candidates are subject to numerous FDA requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our partners, and our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we and our strategic partners and licensees must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Our product candidate may not be approved for all indications that we request, which would limit the uses of our product and adversely impact our potential royalties and product sales. Such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries, among other things, we may be subject to fines and other civil penalties, delays in approving or failure to approve a product, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, injunctions and criminal prosecution, any of which would harm our business. 38 Table of Contents We may need to change our business practices to comply with health care fraud and abuse regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are successful in achieving approval to market one or more of our product candidates, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as the “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing or causing to be filed a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, sometimes known as “relators” or, more commonly, as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing of qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claim action. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of between $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. In addition to the laws described above, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. 39 Table of Contents If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, they may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunities. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense and is expected to increase. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, both in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors have products or are pursuing the development of drugs that target the same diseases and conditions that are the focus of our product development programs. Our competitors could have products that are in advanced development and may succeed in developing drugs that are more effective, safer and more affordable or more easily administered than ours, or that achieve patent protection or commercialization sooner than our products. Our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any drugs that we may develop. In many of our target disease areas, potential competitors are working to develop new compounds with different mechanisms of action, and attractive efficacy and safety profiles. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, human and research and development resources, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities and production facilities than we do. Smaller companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through proprietary research discoveries and collaboration arrangements with established pharmaceutical companies. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete. Biopharmaceutical technologies have undergone rapid and significant change and we expect that they will continue to do so. As a result, there is significant risk that our current product candidates may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by new discoveries before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. If our product candidates are rendered obsolete by advancements in biopharmaceutical technologies, our future prospects will suffer. Consumers may sue us for product liability, which could result in substantial liabilities that exceed our available resources and damage our reputation. Developing and commercializing drug products entails significant product liability risks. Liability claims may arise from our and our partners’ use of products in clinical trials and the commercial sale of those products. Consumers may make product liability claims directly against us and/or our collaborators, and our collaborators or others selling these products may seek contribution from us if they incur any loss or expenses related to such claims. We currently have insurance that covers our clinical trials. We believe our current insurance coverage is reasonably adequate at this time. We will, however, need to increase and expand this coverage as we commence additional clinical trials, as well as larger scale trials, and if our product candidates are approved for commercial sale. This insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products that we or one of our partners develop. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Liability from such claims could exceed our total assets if we do not prevail in any lawsuit brought by a third party alleging that an injury was caused by one or more of our drug products. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. Another example of proposed reform that could 40 Table of Contents affect our business is the current discussion of drug reimportation into the United States. In 2000, Congress directed the FDA to adopt regulations allowing the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at lower prices. Although the Secretary of Health and Human Services has refused to implement this directive, in July 2003, the House of Representatives passed a similar bill that does not require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to act. The reimportation bills have not yet resulted in any new laws or regulations; however, these and other initiatives could decrease the price we or any potential collaborators receive for our product candidates once they are approved for sale, adversely affecting our future revenue growth and potential profitability. Moreover, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. Risks Related to the Market for our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. Prior to our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market on December 7, 2006, there had been no active trading market for our common stock in the United States as our common stock had only been listed on the Osaka Securities Exchange in Japan. Despite the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market in December 2006, trading volume on the Nasdaq Global Market has been light and an active trading market may not develop for our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuation. For example, since the date of our initial public offering in Japan through January 31, 2007, our stock has traded as high as approximately $42.00 and as low as approximately $7.25. The trading market for our common stock also may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who may cover us or our industry were to publish an unfavorable research report or to downgrade our stock, our stock price likely would decline. If one or more of these analysts were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. If the holders of the shares purchased prior to our initial public offering were to determine to sell all or a significant portion of their shares at one time, there would be significant downward pressure on our stock price and it may be difficult to sell your shares. On September 19, 2005, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 to register 6,733,536 shares of common stock for resale from time to time, which registration statement was subsequently declared effective by the SEC. The registered shares were beneficially owned by 47 holders. On November 23, 2005, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 to register 1,335,657 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants held by three parties, of which warrants held by our two founders that relate to 1,285,657 shares were exercisable at $1.00 per share and a warrant held by a separate investor that relates to 50,000 shares was exercisable at $10.00 per share. At December 31, 2006, there were 777,076 warrants outstanding. All of such shares, other than shares held by Dr. Iwaki, may also be sold from time to time in exempt transactions pursuant to Rule 144(k) promulgated by the SEC. The trading volume for our stock is low, with an average trading volume of approximately 38,081 shares per day on the Hercules Market of the Osaka Securities Exchange and 33,080 shares per day on the Nasdaq Global Market during the month of December 2006. If the holders of such shares, to the extent such shares have not been sold already, were to attempt immediately to sell their shares, there would be significant downward pressure on our stock price and it may be difficult, or even impossible, to find a buyer for shares of our common stock. The warrants held by our founders expire in 2007 and the warrant held by a separate investor expires in 2009. If the foregoing warrants are exercised, our stockholders will experience immediate and substantial dilution. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more complicated and the removal and replacement of our directors and management more difficult. Our restated Certificate of Incorporation and amended and restated Bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock or 41 Table of Contents adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and management. These provisions: • establish that members of the board of directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of stockholders owning at least a majority of our capital stock; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors in a discriminatory fashion designed to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent or delay a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms. Effective November 24, 2006, our Board of Directors adopted our stockholder rights plan. Under the plan, we declared a dividend distribution of one “Right” for each outstanding share of our common stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on December 11, 2006. Since that time, we have issued one Right with each newly issued share of common stock. Each Right, when exercisable, entitles the holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Preferred Stock at a purchase price of $77.00. In general, under the plan, if a person or affiliated group acquires beneficial ownership of 20% or more of our shares of common stock, then each Right (other than those held by such acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock (or, under certain circumstances, a combination of securities or other assets) having a value of twice the underlying purchase price of the Right. In addition, if following the announcement of the existence of an acquiring person or affiliated group we are involved in a business combination or sale of 50% or more of our assets or earning power, each Right (other than those held by the acquiring person or affiliated group) will entitle the holder to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock of the acquiring entity having a value of twice the underlying purchase price of the Right. The Board of Directors also has the right, after an acquiring person or affiliated group is identified, to cause each Right to be exchanged for common stock or substitute consideration. We may redeem the Rights at a price of $0.001 per Right prior to the identification of an acquiring person or affiliated group. The Rights expire on November 23, 2016. We also may be subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In any event, these provisions may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Any such delay or prevention could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 