Risk Factors – If we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements we may experience significant increases in the cost of labor or a disruption in our operations.” 9 Table of Contents PROPERTIES The table below sets forth our principal properties: Land and Related Surface Rights Mineral Reserves Location Use Owned/ Leased Expiration of Lease Owned/ Leased Expiration of Lease Cote Blanche, Louisiana Rock salt production facility Leased 2060 Leased 2060 Lyons, Kansas Evaporated salt production facility Owned N/A Owned N/A Ogden, Utah SOP, solar salt and magnesiumchloride production facility Owned N/A Leased (1) Amherst, Nova Scotia, Canada Evaporated salt production facility Owned N/A Leased 2023(2) Goderich, Ontario, Canada Rock salt production facility Owned N/A Leased 2022(2) Goderich, Ontario, Canada Evaporated salt production facility Owned N/A Owned N/A Unity, Saskatchewan, Canada Evaporated salt production facility Owned N/A Leased 2009/2016(3) Winsford, Cheshire, U.K. Rock salt production facility; recordsmanagement Owned N/A Owned N/A London, England Records management Leased 2025 N/A N/A Overland Park, Kansas Corporate headquarters Leased 2015 N/A N/A (1) The Ogden lease automatically renews on an annual basis. (2) Subject to our right of renewal through 2043. (3) Consists of two leases expiring in 2009 and 2016 subject to our right of renewal through 2030 and 2037, respectively. With respect to each facility at which we extract salt, brine or SOP, we obtain any required or necessary permits prior to the commencement of mining. Permits or licenses are obtained as needed in the normal course of business based on our mine plans and state, provincial and local regulatory provisions regarding mine permitting and licensing. Based on our historical permitting experience, we expect to be able to continue to obtain necessary mining permits to support historical rates of production. Our mineral leases have varying terms. Some will expire after a set term of years, while others continue indefinitely. Many of these leases provide for a royalty payment to the lessor based on a specific amount per ton of mineral extracted or as a percentage of revenue. We believe we will be able to continue to extend our material mineral lease agreements, as we have in the past, at commercially reasonable terms, without incurring substantial costs or incurring material modifications to the existing lease terms and conditions. In addition, we own a number of properties and are party to non-mining leases that permit us to perform activities that are ancillary to our mining operations, such as surface use leases for storage at depots and warehouse leases. We also lease two warehouses in London, England to facilitate our records management business. Both of these leases expire in 2025. We believe that all of our leases were entered into at market terms. 10 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K The following map shows the locations of our principal operating facilities: ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS We produce and distribute crop and animal nutrients, salt and deicing products. These activities subject us to an evolving set of international, federal, state, provincial and local environmental, health and safety (“EHS”) laws that regulate, or propose to regulate: (i) product content; (ii) use of products by both us and our customers; (iii) conduct of mining and production operations, including safety procedures followed by employees; (iv) management and handling of raw materials; (v) air and water quality impacts from our facilities; (vi) disposal, storage and management of hazardous and solid wastes; (vii) remediation of contamination at our facilities and third-party sites; and (viii) post-mining land reclamation. For new regulatory programs, it is difficult for us to ascertain future compliance obligations or estimate future costs until implementation of the regulations has been finalized and definitive regulatory interpretations have been adopted. We respond to regulatory requirements by making necessary modifications to our facilities and/or operating procedures. We have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, substantial financial and managerial resources to comply with EHS standards. We estimate that our 2008 EHS capital expenditures will total approximately $2.7 million, primarily related to safety improvements. We expect that our estimated expenditures in 2008 for reclamation activities will be approximately $0.4 million. It is possible that greater than anticipated EHS capital expenditures or reclamation expenditures will be required in 2008 or in the future. We maintain accounting accruals for certain contingent environmental liabilities and believe these accruals comply with generally accepted accounting principles. We record accruals for environmental investigatory and non-capital remediation costs when we believe it’s probable that we will be responsible, in whole or in part, for environmental remediation activities and the expenditures for such activities are reasonably estimable. Based on current information, it is the opinion of management that our contingent liabilities arising from EHS matters, taking into account established accruals, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had recorded environmental accruals of $2.1 million. Product Requirements and Impacts International, federal, state and provincial standards (i) require registration of many of our products before such products can be sold; (ii) impose labeling requirements on those products; and (iii) require producers to manufacture the products to formulations set forth on the labels. Environmental, natural resource and public health agencies at all regulatory levels continue to evaluate alleged health and environmental impacts that might arise from the handling and use of products such as those we manufacture. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or the “EPA,” the State of California and The Fertilizer Institute have each completed independent assessments of potential risks posed by crop nutrient materials. These assessments concluded that, based on the available data, crop nutrient materials generally do not pose harm to human health. It is unclear whether any further evaluations may result in additional standards or regulatory requirements for the producing industries, including us, or for our customers. It is the opinion of management that the potential impact of these standards on the market for our products or on the expenditures that may be necessary to meet new requirements will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K In December 2001, the Canadian government released a Priority Substances List Assessment Report for road salt. This report found that road salts are entering the environment under conditions that may have a harmful effect or constitute a danger to the environment. Based on this report, the Minister of Environment proposed designating road salt as a “toxic” substance pursuant to the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. Canada’s federal cabinet, which has ultimate responsibility, did not take final action with respect to this proposal and is not subject to any deadline to do so. In lieu of any toxicity designation or regulatory action, in April 2004, Environment Canada published a Code of Practice to serve as voluntary guidelines for road salt users. The Code of Practice requires large road salt users to develop salt management plans. Further, in its 2006 – 2007 Annual Report, the Environmental Commissioner of Ontario recommended, along with other items, the development of a comprehensive, mandatory, province-wide road salts management strategy. We do not believe that this will have a material direct effect on us, but the new salt management plans could lead to changes in the application or amount of road salt used in Canada. Given the importance of road salt for traffic safety and the current lack of any practical substitute, we deem it unlikely that any guidelines or regulations would result in a complete ban on the use of road salt. As noted in the December 2001 report, the use of road salt and other deicing agents “is an important component of strategies to keep roadways open and safe during the winter and minimize traffic crashes, injuries and mortality under icy and snowy conditions.” Since the dissemination of the December 2001 report, we have endeavored to work more closely with the national government as well as provinces and municipalities to better manage the use, storage and release of our road salts. We believe it has become less likely that road salts will be designated as a toxic substance. We cannot predict whether any proposal to designate road salt as a toxic substance would be finalized or the promulgation of any other future regulation. Standardized guidelines for the use and storage of road salt or any alternate deicing products may cause us to suffer reduced sales and incur substantial costs and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although we are not aware of any similar governmental proposals for such designation of road salt in either the United States or the United Kingdom, we cannot guarantee that such proposals will not arise. Operating Requirements and Impacts We hold numerous environmental, mining and other permits or approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. Our operations are subject to permits for extraction of salt and brine, discharges of process materials to air and surface water, and injection of brine and wastewater to subsurface wells. Some of our proposed activities may require waste storage permits. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. In addition, changes to environmental and mining regulations or permit requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. Expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. The Mine Safety and Health Administration issued an amended final rule in May 2006 regulating diesel particulate matter in underground mines. This rule has a two-year phase-in period for the final diesel particulate matter standard and is applicable to our Cote Blanche salt mine in Louisiana. We are currently in compliance with the interim standard and believe we will achieve compliance with the final standard by the May 2008 effective date without incurring material amounts of additional expenditures. Remedial Activities Remediation at Our Facilities - Many of our formerly owned and current facilities have been in operation for a number of years. Operations have historically involved the use and handling of regulated chemical substances, salt and by-products or process tailings by us and predecessor operators which have resulted in soil, surface water and groundwater contamination. At many of these facilities, spills or other releases of regulated substances have occurred previously and potentially could occur in the future, possibly requiring us to undertake or fund cleanup efforts under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or “CERCLA,” or state and provincial or United Kingdom laws governing cleanup or disposal of hazardous substances. In some instances, we have agreed, pursuant to consent orders or agreements with the appropriate governmental agencies, to undertake investigations, which currently are in progress, to determine whether remedial action may be required to address such contamination. At other locations, we have entered into consent orders or agreements with appropriate governmental agencies to perform required remedial activities that will address identified site conditions. At still other locations, we have undertaken voluntary remediation, and have removed formerly used underground storage tanks. Expenditures for these known conditions currently are not expected, individually or in the aggregate, to be material. However, material expenditures could be required in the future to remediate the contamination at these or at other current or former sites. In addition, in connection with the recapitalization through which Compass became a stand-alone entity, Mosaic, a former owner, agreed to indemnify us against liabilities for certain known and unknown conditions at existing and former sites. The Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection (“DATCP”) has information indicating that agricultural chemicals are present in the groundwater in the vicinity of the Kenosha, Wisconsin plant. DATCP directed us to conduct an investigation into the possible presence of agricultural chemicals in soil and groundwater at the Kenosha plant. We have completed the investigation of the soils and groundwater at the Kenosha site and remitted the findings to DATCP. DATCP has reviewed those findings and deferred our liability exemption request to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resource (“DNR”). We expect the DNR to make a determination in 2008. If required, we would conduct all phases of any investigation and any required remediation work under the Wisconsin Agricultural Chemical Cleanup Program, which would provide for reimbursement of some of the costs. None of the identified contaminants have been used in association with Compass Minerals site operations. We would expect to seek participation by, or cost reimbursement from, other parties responsible for the 12 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K presence of any agricultural chemicals found in soils at this site if we do not receive the liability exemption and are required to conduct further investigation or remedial actions. Remediation at Third-Party Facilities - Along with impacting the sites at which we have operated, various third parties have alleged that our past operations have resulted in contamination to neighboring off-site areas or third-party facilities including third-party disposal facilities for regulated substances generated by our operating activities. CERCLA imposes liability, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party’s conduct, on certain categories of persons who are considered to have contributed to the release of “hazardous substances” into the environment. Under CERCLA, or its various state analogues, one party may potentially be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. We have entered into “de minimis” settlement agreements with the EPA with respect to several CERCLA sites, pursuant to which we have made one-time cash payments and received statutory protection from future claims arising from those sites. In some cases, however, such settlements have included “reopeners,” which could result in additional liability at such sites in the event of newly discovered contamination or other circumstances. At other sites for which we have received notice of potential CERCLA liability, we have provided information to the EPA that we believe demonstrates that we are not liable, and the EPA has not asserted claims against us with respect to such sites. In some instances, we have agreed, pursuant to orders from or agreements with appropriate governmental agencies or agreements with private parties, to undertake or fund investigations, some of which currently are in progress, to determine whether remedial action, under CERCLA or otherwise, may be required to address contamination. At other locations, we have entered into consent orders or agreements with appropriate governmental agencies to perform required remedial activities that will address identified site conditions. At present, we are not aware of any additional sites for which we expect to receive a notice from the EPA or any other party of potential CERCLA liability that would have a material affect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, based on past operations, there is a potential that we may receive notices in the future for sites of which we are currently unaware or that our liability at currently known sites may increase. Expenditures for our known environmental liabilities and site conditions currently are not expected, individually or in the aggregate, to be material or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Mining operations are subject to a variety of risks and hazards which may not be covered by insurance. The process of mining involves risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions or acts of nature. Additionally, our rock salt mines are located near bodies of water. Such occurrences could lead to uncontrolled water intrusion or flooding which could result in the complete loss of a mine or could otherwise result in damage or impairment to, or destruction of, mineral properties and production facilities, environmental damage, delays in mining and business interruption, and could result in personal injury or death. Although we evaluate our risks and carry insurance policies to mitigate the risk of loss where economically feasible, not all of these risks are reasonably insurable and our insurance coverage may contain limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. We cannot assure you that our coverage will be sufficient to meet our needs in the event of loss. Our operations are dependent on our rights and ability to mine our property and having received the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities. We hold numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. A decision by a governmental agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. Expansion of our existing operations is also predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals which we may not receive in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, many of our facilities are located on land leased from governmental authorities. Expansion of these operations may require securing additional leases, which we may not obtain in a timely manner, or at all. Our leases generally require us to continue mining in order to retain the lease, the loss of which could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. We are currently participating in an environmental study and performing other activities required of us in order to obtain leases and permits which would allow us to expand our solar evaporation ponds at the Great Salt Lake. The process of granting leases has been challenged by certain organizations. The process of granting leases has been challenged by certain organizations. If we are unable to obtain all or a portion of the required leases and permits, the previously capitalized costs associated with the project would be evaluated for impairment. As of December 31, 2007, expenditures related to this project are not material. 13 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K Our salt mines located in Cote Blanche, Louisiana and Goderich, Ontario, Canada constitute approximately 68% of our total salt production capacity. These underground salt mines supply substantially all of the salt product necessary to support our North American highway deicing product line and portions of our consumer and industrial salt products. Although sales and profitability of the highway deicing salt product line can vary from year to year due to weather variations in our markets, over the last three years, sales of highway deicing products have averaged approximately 45% of our consolidated sales. An extended production interruption or catastrophic event at either of these facilities could result in an inability to have product available for sale or to fulfill our highway deicing sales contracts and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we are aware of an aboriginal land claim filed by The Chippewas of Nawash and the Chippewas of Saugeen (the “Chippewas”) in the Ontario Superior Court against The Attorney General of Canada and Her Majesty The Queen In Right of Ontario. The Chippewas claim that a large part of the land under Lake Huron was never conveyed by treaty and therefore belongs to the Chippewas. The land claimed includes land under which our Goderich mine operates and has mining rights granted to it by the government of Ontario. We are not a party to this court action. Similar claims are pending with respect to other parts of the Great Lakes by other aboriginal claimants. We have been informed by the Ministry of the Attorney General of Ontario that “Canada takes the position that the common law does not recognize aboriginal title to the Great Lakes and its connecting waterways.” We do not believe that this action will result in a material adverse financial effect on the Company. Mining is a capital-intensive business, and the inability to fund necessary capital expenditures in order to develop or expand our operations could have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. We intend to make significant capital expenditures over the next several years to expand our rock salt production capacity at our Goderich mine and our SOP production at our Great Salt Lake facility. Capital expenditures required for these projects may increase due to factors beyond our control. We could have difficulty finding or obtaining the financing required to fund our capital expenditures, which could limit our expansion ability or increase our debt service requirements which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and profitability. The seasonal demand for our products and the variations in our operations from quarter to quarter due to weather conditions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our deicing product line is seasonal, with operating results varying from quarter to quarter as a result of weather conditions and other factors. On average, over the last three years, approximately 74% of our deicing product sales (or 40% of consolidated sales) occurred during the months of November through March when winter weather was most severe. Winter weather events are not predictable outside of a relatively short time-frame, yet we must stand ready to deliver deicing products under our highway deicing contracts. As a result, we need to stockpile sufficient highway deicing salt in the last three fiscal quarters to meet estimated demand for the winter season. Winter weather events can be influenced by weather cycles and other natural events. Any prolonged change in weather patterns in our relevant geographic markets could impact demand for our deicing products. Weather conditions that impact our highway deicing product line include temperature, levels of wintry precipitation, number of snowfall events and the potential for, and duration and timing of snowfall or icy conditions in our relevant geographic markets. Lower than expected sales during the winter season could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our SOP operating results are dependent in part upon conditions in the agriculture markets. The agricultural products business can be affected by a number of factors, the most important of which, for U.S. markets, are weather patterns, field conditions (particularly during periods of traditionally high crop nutrients application) and quantities of crop nutrients imported to and exported from North America. Additionally, our ability to produce SOP at our solar evaporation ponds is dependent upon sufficient lake water levels and arid weather conditions. Extended periods of precipitation or a prolonged lack of sunshine would hinder the evaporation rate and hence our production levels, resulting in lower sales volumes. Additionally, our ability to harvest minerals through our evaporation ponds could be negatively impacted by any prolonged change in weather patterns leading to reduced mountain snowfall that could result in less fresh water run-off and lower lake levels, or by increased rainfall during the summer months at our solar evaporation ponds at the Great Salt Lake. Our production process consumes large amounts of natural gas, steam and electricity. Additionally, KCl is a raw material feedstock used to supplement our SOP solar harvest, produce some of our deicing products and sell for water conditioning applications. A significant interruption in the supply or an increase in the price of any of these products or services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Energy costs, primarily natural gas and electricity, represented approximately 12% of our total production costs in 2007. Natural gas is a primary fuel source used in the evaporated salt production process. Our profitability is impacted by the price and availability of natural gas we purchase from third parties. We have a policy of hedging natural gas prices through the use of futures contracts. We have not entered into any long-term contracts for the purchase of natural gas. Our contractual arrangements for the supply of natural gas do not specify quantities and are automatically renewed annually unless either party elects not to do so. We do not have arrangements in place with back-up suppliers. A significant increase in the price of energy that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our products or covered through our hedging arrangements, or an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, steam or electricity to our production facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K We use potassium chloride (KCl) as a raw material feedstock in our SOP production process to supplement our solar harvest, as an additive to some of our consumer deicing products and to sell for water conditioning applications. We purchase substantially all of our KCl from Mosaic under long-term contracts where the pricing is typically determined by reference to a formula and has been favorable to market in recent years. Large positive or negative fluctuations can occur to the price we pay for product without a corresponding change in sales price for our customers. Consequently, this could change the profitability of these products which could materially affect our results of operations and cash flows. If an adverse event were to occur preventing our supplier from delivering KCl, we cannot assure you that we could find a replacement vendor to fill our KCl requirements economically. Consequently this could reduce the amount of SOP, blended deicing and water conditioning products available which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Increasing costs or a lack of availability of transportation services could have an adverse effect on our ability to deliver products at competitive prices. Because of salt’s relatively low production cost, transportation and handling costs tend to be a significant component of the total delivered cost of sales. The high relative cost of transportation tends to favor manufacturers located close to the customer. We contract shipping, barge, trucking and rail services to move salt from our production facilities to the distribution outlets and customers. In many instances, we have committed to deliver salt, under penalty of non-performance, up to nine months or more prior to having produced the salt for delivery to our customers. A reduction in the dependability or availability of transportation services or a significant increase in transportation service rates could impair our ability to deliver salt economically to our markets and impair our ability to expand our markets. Competition in our markets could limit our ability to attract and retain customers, force us to continuously make capital investments, alter supply levels and put pressure on the prices we can charge for our products. Additionally, with regard to our specialty fertilizer product, economic conditions in the agriculture markets, and supply and demand imbalances for competing potash products can also impact the price of our products. We encounter competition in all areas of our business. Competition in our product lines is based on a number of considerations, including product performance, transportation costs in salt distribution, brand reputation, price, quality of client service and support. Additionally, customers for our products are attempting to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to increase their efficiency. Our customers increasingly demand a broad product range and we must continue to develop our expertise in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. We may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or maintain our competitive position. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Muriate of potash (“MOP”) is the least expensive form of potash fertilizer based on the concentration of K2O and consequently, it is the most widely used potassium source for most crops. SOP is utilized by growers for many high-value crops, especially crops for which low-chloride content fertilizers improve quality and yield. Economic conditions for agricultural products can affect the type and amount of crops grown as well as the type of fertilizer product used. Potash is a commodity and consequently, its market is highly competitive and affected by global supply and demand. An over-supply of either type of potash product in the domestic or world-wide markets could unfavorably impact the sales prices we can charge for our specialty potash fertilizer, as a large price disparity between the potash products could cause growers to choose a less-expensive alternative. Our business is dependent upon highly skilled personnel, and the loss of key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our development and results of operations. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managers and other personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on the development of our business and results of operations and could lead to higher labor costs or the use of less-qualified personnel. We do not currently maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our key employees. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, we may experience significant increases in the cost of labor or a disruption in our operations. Labor costs, including benefits, represent approximately 29% of our total production costs in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had 1,588 employees, of which 742 are employed in the United States, 690 in Canada and 156 in the United Kingdom. Approximately 33% of our U.S. workforce and 70% of our global workforce is represented by labor unions. Of our nine material collective bargaining agreements, two will expire in 2008, four will expire in 2009 and three will expire in 2010. Additionally, approximately 10% of our workforce is employed in Europe where trade union membership is common. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, as a result of general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, political and other factors beyond our control, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor or that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. 15 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K Environmental laws and regulation may subject us to significant liability and require us to incur additional costs in the future. Additionally, our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations with which we must comply in order to obtain contracts with governmental entities. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, Canada and Europe, including laws and regulations relating to land reclamation and remediation of hazardous substance releases, and discharges to soil, air and water. Environmental laws and regulations with which we currently comply may become more stringent and require material expenditures for continued compliance. Environmental remediation laws such as CERCLA, imposes liability, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party’s conduct, on certain categories of persons (known as “potentially responsible parties” (“PRPs”)) who are considered to have contributed to the release of “hazardous substances” into the environment. Although we are not currently incurring material liabilities pursuant to CERCLA, in the future we may incur material liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental cleanup laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities, or off-site disposal locations. Under CERCLA, or its various state analogues, one party may, under some circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. Liability under these laws involves inherent uncertainties. Violations of environmental, health and safety laws are subject to civil, and in some cases, criminal sanctions. We have received notices from governmental agencies that we may be a PRP at certain sites under CERCLA or other environmental cleanup laws. In some cases, we have entered into “de minimis” settlement agreements with the United States with respect to certain CERCLA sites, pursuant to which we have made one-time cash payments and received statutory protection from future claims arising from those sites. At other sites for which we have received notice of potential CERCLA liability, we have provided information to the EPA that we believe demonstrates that we are not liable and the EPA has not asserted claims against us with respect to such sites. In some instances, we have agreed, pursuant to consent orders or agreements with the appropriate governmental agencies, to undertake investigations which currently are in progress, to determine whether remedial action may be required to address such contamination. At other locations, we have entered into consent orders or agreements with appropriate governmental agencies to perform remedial activities that will address identified site conditions. At present, we are not aware of any additional sites for which we expect to receive a notice from the EPA of potential CERCLA liability that would have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, based on past operations, there is a potential that we may receive such notices in the future for sites of which we are currently unaware. We currently do not expect our known environmental liabilities and site conditions, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse impact on our financial position. However, material expenditures could be required in the future to remediate the contamination at these or at other current or former sites. We have also developed alternative mine uses. For example, we sold an excavated portion of our salt mine in the United Kingdom to a subsidiary of Veolia Environnement (“Veolia”), a business with operations in the waste management industry. That business is permitted by the jurisdictional environmental agency to dispose of certain stable types of hazardous waste in the area of the salt mine owned by them. We believe that the mine is stable and provides a secure disposal location separate from our mining and records management operations. However, we recognize that any temporary or permanent storage of hazardous waste may involve risks to the environment. Although we believe that we have taken these risks into account during our planning process, and Veolia is required by U.K. statute to maintain adequate security for any potential closure obligation, it is possible that material expenditures could be required in the future to further reduce this risk or to remediate any future contamination. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues, including the impact of any prolonged change in weather patterns, can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations may require substantial capital expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information, see Item 1, “Business — Environmental, Health and Safety Matters.” Our highway deicing customers principally consist of municipalities, counties, states, provinces and other governmental entities in North America and the U.K. This product line accounts for approximately 47% of our annual sales. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations administered by federal, state, local and foreign governments relating to, but not limited to, the production, transporting and storing of our products as well as the commercial activities conducted by our employees and our agents. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could preclude us from conducting business with governmental agencies and lead to penalties, injunctions, civil remedies or fines. The Canadian government’s past proposal to designate road salt as a toxic substance could have a material adverse effect on our business, including reduced sales and the incurrence of substantial costs and expenditures. In December 2001, the Canadian government released a Priority Substances List Assessment Report for road salt. This report found that road salts are entering the environment under conditions that may have a harmful effect or constitute a danger to the environment. Based on this report, the Minister of Environment proposed designating road salt as a “toxic” substance pursuant to the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. Canada’s federal cabinet, which has ultimate responsibility, did not take final action with respect to this proposal and is not subject to any deadline to do so. In lieu of any toxicity designation or regulatory action, in April 2004, Environment Canada published a Code of Practice to serve as voluntary guidelines for road salt users. The Code of Practice requires large road salt users to develop salt management plans. Further, in its 2006 – 2007 Annual Report, the Environmental Commissioner of Ontario recommended, along with other items, the development of a 16 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K comprehensive, mandatory, province-wide road salts management strategy. Although we do not believe that this will have a material direct effect on us, any new salt management plans could lead to changes in the application or amount of road salt used in Canada. Given the importance of road salt for traffic safety and the current lack of any practical substitute, we deem it unlikely that any guidelines or regulations would result in a complete ban on the use of road salt. As noted in the December 2001 report, the use of road salt and other deicing agents “is an important component of strategies to keep roadways open and safe during the winter and minimize traffic crashes, injuries and mortality under icy and snowy conditions.” Since the dissemination of the December 2001 report, we have endeavored to work more closely with the national government as well as provinces and municipalities to better manage the use, storage and release of our road salts. As a result, we believe it has become less likely that road salts will be designated as a toxic substance. We can neither predict whether any proposal to designate road salt as a toxic substance will be finalized, nor the promulgation of any other future regulation. Standardized guidelines for the use and storage of road salt or any alternate deicing products may cause us to suffer reduced sales and incur substantial costs and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, while we are not aware of any similar governmental proposals for such designation of road salt in either the United States or the United Kingdom, we cannot guarantee that such proposals will not arise. Protection of proprietary technology — Our intellectual property may be misappropriated or subject to claims of infringement. We protect our intellectual property rights primarily through a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret protection. We have obtained patents on some of our products and processes, and from time to time we file new patent applications. Our patents, which vary in duration, may not preclude others from selling competitive products or using similar production processes. We cannot assure you that pending applications for protection of our intellectual property rights will be approved. Many of our important brand names are registered as trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. These registrations can be renewed if the trademark remains in use. These trademark registrations may not prevent our competitors from using similar brand names. We also rely on trade secret protection to guard confidential unpatented technology and when appropriate, we require that employees and third party consultants or advisors enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. It is possible that our competitors could independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we may lose the competitive advantage provided by our intellectual property. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Additionally, third parties may claim that our products infringe their patents or other proprietary rights and seek corresponding damages or injunctive relief. Economic and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our business, including economic loss and a negative impact on earnings. Since we manufacture and sell our products primarily in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales outside the United States, as a percentage of our total sales, were 28% for the year ended December 31, 2007. Accordingly, our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · exchange controls; · tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; · differing labor regulations; · requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; · restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; · restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; and · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar or British pound sterling may adversely affect our results of operations. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. In addition, our debt service requirements are primarily in U.S. dollars even though a significant percentage of our cash flow is generated in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling. Significant changes in the value of Canadian dollars and pounds sterling relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to meet interest and principal payments on U.S. dollar-denominated debt. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we or one of our subsidiaries enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our currency transaction and/or 17 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K translation risks. It is possible that volatility in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have experienced and expect to experience economic loss and a negative impact on earnings from time to time as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Effects of Currency Fluctuations and Inflation and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic and political conditions. We cannot assure you that we will continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. If we cannot successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, our growth may be limited and our financial condition adversely affected. Our business strategy includes supplementing internal growth by pursuing acquisitions of small complementary businesses. We may be unable to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms, identify suitable businesses to acquire or successfully integrate acquired businesses in the future. We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of other small complementary businesses. These competition and regulatory considerations may result in fewer acquisition opportunities. If we cannot complete acquisitions, our growth may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. Furthermore, CMI is a holding company with no operations of its own and is dependent on our subsidiaries for cash. As of December 31, 2007, Compass Minerals had $606.8 million of outstanding indebtedness, including $171.4 million of senior subordinated discount notes (“Discount Notes”), approximately $401.3 million of borrowings under the two senior secured term loan facilities, and $34.1 million of borrowings under the senior secured revolving credit facility. In addition, we have a stockholders’ deficit of $4.6 million. This level of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: · it may limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements; · it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; · we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy; · it may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; and · it may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. Although our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, none of our subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to CMI for payment on our Discount Notes or to pay dividends on our capital stock. Accordingly, CMI’s ability to make payments on our Discount Notes and distribute dividends to our stockholders is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds to CMI from our subsidiaries, and our compliance with the terms of our senior secured credit facilities, including the total leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. Furthermore, we must also comply with the terms of our indenture which limits the amount of dividends we can pay to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will remain in compliance with these ratios nor can we assure you that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit our subsidiaries to provide CMI with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund scheduled interest and principal payments on the Discount Notes, when due. If we consummate an acquisition, our debt service requirements could increase. Furthermore, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, however we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. An increase in interest rates would have an adverse affect on our interest expense under our senior secured credit facilities. Additionally, the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies or may require accelerated payments on our debt. We pay variable interest on our senior secured credit facilities based on LIBOR or ABR. As of December 31, 2007, $250 million of our variable rate borrowings totaling $435.4 million has been hedged through interest rate swap agreements. Consequently, increases in interest rates will adversely affect our cost of debt for the portion that has not been hedged. Our senior secured credit facilities and indebtedness limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries, among other things, to: · incur additional indebtedness or contingent obligations; · pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; · repurchase or redeem our stock; · make investments; · grant liens; 18 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K · make capital expenditures; · enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates; · sell assets; and · acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain financial ratios. These financial ratios include an interest coverage ratio and a total leverage ratio. Although we have historically been able to maintain these financial ratios, we may not be able to maintain these ratios in the future. Covenants in our senior secured credit facilities may also impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures or engage in other favorable business activities. If we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could require immediate payment of the entire principal amount. These circumstances include nonpayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts when due, a change of control, default under agreements governing our other indebtedness, material judgments in excess of $15,000,000, failure to provide timely audited financial statements or inaccuracy of representations and warranties. Any default under our senior secured credit facilities or agreements governing our other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of principal payments under our other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities would require immediate repayment, we would not be able to repay them and also repay our other indebtedness in full. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and other agreements governing our other indebtedness may be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile. Our common stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events, including, but not limited to: · our quarterly and annual operating results; · weather conditions that impact our highway and consumer deicing product sales or SOP production levels; · future announcements concerning our business; · changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; · changes and developments affecting internal controls over financial reporting; · actions of competitors; · market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy; · changes in government and environmental regulation; · changes and developments affecting the salt industry; · general market, economic and political conditions; and · natural disasters, terrorist attacks and acts of war. We may be restricted from paying cash dividends on our common stock in the future. We currently declare and pay regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, earnings, legal requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities limit annual dividends to $55 million plus 50% of the preceding year net income, as defined, and may restrict us from paying cash dividends on our common stock if our total leverage ratio exceeds 4.75 or if a default or event of default has occurred and is continuing under the facilities. The terms of our indenture may also restrict us from paying cash dividends on our common stock. The payment of a cash dividend on our common stock is considered a restricted payment under our indenture and we are restricted from paying any cash dividend on our common stock unless we satisfy minimum requirements with respect to our cumulative consolidated net income (plus any additional cash proceeds received upon the issuance of our common stock) and our fixed charge coverage ratio. We cannot assure you that the agreements governing our current and future indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities, will permit us to pay dividends on our common stock. 19 Table of Contents COMPASS MINERALS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2007 FORM 10-K Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect our common stock price. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. We are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 32,341,815 shares of common stock were outstanding and 816,374 shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, issuance of earned deferred stock units, and vesting of restricted stock units as of December 31, 2007. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future sales and issuances of shares of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 