Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described, and the other information contained, elsewhere in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity could be seriously harmed. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose some or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have had net operating losses for several years, had an accumulated deficit of $242.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and only recently became profitable, and we are unable to predict whether we will remain profitable. We were incorporated in 2003, did not commence shipping production quantities of our home networking products until December 2004 and only became profitable in the fourth quarter of 2009. Consequently, any predictions about future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer history of successfully commercializing our home networking solutions. You should not rely on our operating results for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. We have incurred substantial net operating losses during our limited operating history. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we incurred net losses attributable to common stockholders of $13.2 million, $136.4 million and $32.1 million, respectively, and for the three months ended December 31, 2009, we had net income of $1.0 million. Although we became profitable in the fourth quarter of 2009, we have incurred significant net losses since our inception and have never been profitable on an annual basis. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $242.0 million. We may incur operating losses in the future as we continue to make significant expenditures related to the development of our products and the expansion of our business, and increase our general and administrative expenses to comply with public company reporting requirements. Our ability to sustain our profitability also depends on our ability to generate and sustain substantially increased revenue and maintain or improve upon our cost control in order to counter any unforeseen difficulties, complications, product delays or other unknown factors that may require additional expenditures, or unforeseen difficulties or costs associated with the integration of acquired assets or businesses. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our growth prospects, product development, sales and marketing and other efforts and factors, we are unable to predict whether we will remain profitable or the extent of our profitability or future losses. If we are unable to achieve adequate growth, we may not sustain profitability and our stock price could decline. We face intense competition and expect competition to increase in the future, with many of our competitors being larger, more established and better capitalized than we are. The markets for our products are extremely competitive and have been characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in customer requirements, short product life cycles and frequent introduction of next generation and new products, as well as competing technologies. This competition could make it more difficult for us to sell our products and result in increased pricing pressure, reduced gross profit as a percentage of revenues or gross margins, increased sales and marketing expenses and failure to increase or the loss of market share 24 Table of Contents or expected market share. Semiconductor products in particular have a history of declining prices driven by customer insistence on lower prices as the cost of production is reduced and as demand falls when competitive products or newer, more advanced products are introduced. If market prices decrease faster than product costs, our gross margins and operating margins would be adversely affected. Moreover, we expect increased competition from other established and emerging companies both domestically and internationally. In particular, we expect to face future competition in the sale of MoCA-compliant chipsets. For example, Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom, has announced the availability of several multi-format video decoded system-on-a-chip solutions with integrated MoCA functionality and Broadcom’s home networking reference design platform has achieved MoCA 1.0 and MoCA 1.1 certification from the MoCA certification board. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties. If so, competitors or alliances that include our competitors may emerge that could acquire significant market share. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry. In addition, our competitors could develop products or technologies that cause our products and technologies to become non-competitive or obsolete, or cause us to substantially reduce our prices. Currently, we face competition from a number of established companies that offer products based on competing technologies, such as Data over Cable Service Interface Specifications, versions of Digital Subscriber Line, Ethernet, HomePNA, HomePlug AV, Wi-Fi and WiMAX, also known as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access. We also expect to face competition from companies that offer products based on g.HN technology once the g.HN standard has been set by the ITU. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are substantially larger and have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we. Given their capital resources, many of these larger organizations are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in capital spending by customers or market downturns in the markets in which we compete. Many of our competitors also have broader product lines and market focus, allowing them to bundle their products and services and effectively use other products to subsidize lower prices for those products that compete with ours or to provide integrated product solutions that offer cost advantages to customers. In addition, many of our competitors have been in operation much longer than we and therefore have better name recognition and more long-standing and established relationships with service providers, ODMs and OEMs. Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • the adoption of our products and technologies by service providers, ODMs and OEMs; • the performance and cost effectiveness of our products relative to our competitors’ products; • our ability to deliver high quality and reliable products in large volumes and on a timely basis; • our ability to build close relationships with service providers, ODMs and OEMs; • our success in developing and utilizing new technologies to offer products and features previously not available in the marketplace that are technologically superior to those offered by our competitors; • our ability to identify new and emerging markets and market trends; • our ability to recruit design and application engineers and other technical personnel; • our ability to protect our intellectual property and obtain licenses to the intellectual property of others on commercially reasonable terms; and • availability of substitute goods offered at a lower price than ours. 25 Table of Contents Our inability to address any of these factors effectively, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, consolidation by industry participants or acquisitions of our competitors by our customers or suppliers could result in competitors with increased market share, larger customer bases, greater diversified product offerings and greater technological and marketing expertise, which would allow them to compete more effectively against us. Current and potential competitors may also gain such competitive advantages by establishing financial or strategic relationships with existing or potential customers, suppliers or other third-parties. These new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge rapidly and acquire significant market share. In addition, some of our suppliers and customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. Depending on the participants, industry consolidation or the formation of strategic relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations by reducing our ability to compete successfully in our current markets and the markets we are seeking to serve. We depend on a limited number of customers, and ultimately service providers, for a substantial portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in, orders from any of these parties could significantly impair our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For example, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, four customers accounted for 58% of our net revenues, and Motorola and Actiontec accounted for 27% and 16%, respectively, of our net revenues. Our inability to generate anticipated revenues from our key existing or targeted customers, or a significant shortfall in sales to these customers would significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to effect sales to existing and other large customers. In addition, we depend on a limited number of service providers that purchase products from our customers that incorporate our products. To date, only a limited number of major service providers, such as Verizon, DIRECTV, Time Warner Cable Inc., or Time Warner, Cox Communications, Inc., or Cox, and Bright House Networks LLC, or BHN, have publicly announced their intentions to use the MoCA standard for home networking. We also primarily rely on two major service providers, DISH Network and DIRECTV, to deploy products using our digital broadcast satellite outdoor unit solutions. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, products sold to our customers that were incorporated into products purchased by Verizon, DISH Network and DIRECTV accounted for substantially all of our net revenues. If these service providers, or other service providers that elect to use our products, reduce or eliminate purchases of our customers’ products which incorporate our products, this would significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our operating results. Due to the continued weakness in the current economic outlook, some service providers may reduce or delay spending or taking delivery of our customers’ products which incorporate our products to respond to changing economic conditions or anticipated changes in their businesses. This may lead to an inventory build up by our customers who may, in turn, reschedule taking delivery of our products or wait to clear their existing inventory before ordering more products from us, which, in turn, may adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on a limited number of service providers’ demand for products which incorporate our products. We may have conflicts with our customers or the service providers that purchase products from our customers that incorporate our products. Any such conflict could result in events that have a negative impact on our business, including: • reduced purchases of our products or our customers’ products that incorporate them; • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights; 26 Table of Contents • litigation or the threat of litigation; or • settlements or other business arrangements imposing obligations on us or restrictions on our business, including obligations to license intellectual property rights or make cash payments. If we fail to develop and introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired, and our competitive position may be harmed. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability and meet the cost expectations of our customers. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products obsolete. Our failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to technological shifts could result in decreased revenues and an increase in design wins by our competitors. In particular, we may experience difficulties with product design, manufacturing, marketing or certification that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new or enhanced products. If we fail to introduce new or enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, we will lose market share and our operating results will be adversely affected. Our results could be adversely affected if our customers or the service providers who purchase their products are unable to successfully compete in their respective markets. Our customers and the service providers that purchase products from our customers face significant competition from their competitors. We rely on these customers’ and service providers’ ability to develop products and/or services that meet the needs of their customers in terms of functionality, performance, availability and price. If these customers and service providers do not successfully compete, they may lose market share, which would negatively impact the demand for our products. For example, for our home networking products, there is intense competition among service providers to deliver video and other multimedia content into and throughout the home. For the sale of our home networking products, we are currently dependent on Verizon’s ability to compete in the market for the delivery of HD video and other multimedia content. Therefore, factors influencing Verizon’s ability to compete in this market, such as laws and regulations regarding local cable franchising, could have an adverse effect on our current ability to sell home networking products. In addition, our digital broadcast satellite outdoor unit products are primarily supplied to digital broadcast satellite service providers by our ODM and OEM customers. Digital broadcast satellite service providers are facing significant competition from telecommunications carriers and cable multiple service operators as they compete for customers in terms of video, voice and data services. Moreover, ODMs and OEMs who market satellite set-top boxes using our silicon tuners are competing with a variety of internet protocol-based video delivery solutions, including versions of Digital Subscriber Line technology and certain fiber optic-based solutions. Many of these technologies compete effectively with satellite set-top boxes and do not require tuners such as the ones we sell. If our customers and the service providers who purchase products from our customers that incorporate our products do not successfully compete, they may lose market share, which would reduce their demand for our products. If the market for HD video and other multimedia content delivery solutions based on the MoCA standard does not develop as we anticipate, our revenues may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results. We derive, and expect to continue to derive for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues from sales of our home networking products based on the MoCA standard. The market for such multimedia content delivery solutions based on the MoCA standard is relatively new, still 27 Table of Contents evolving and difficult to predict. For example, while service providers are currently deploying products based on the MoCA 1.0 and MoCA 1.1 standard, MoCA is currently working on a new version of the standard, MoCA 2.0. It is uncertain when products based on the MoCA 2.0 standard will be available or how quickly service providers will begin to deploy such products. It is uncertain whether the MoCA standard will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. We believe our primary competition in this market currently comes from companies that offer products based on non-MoCA home networking solutions, such as Ethernet, HomePNA, Home Plug AV, Wi-Fi and WiMedia, but we expect products from Broadcom will begin to compete with our MoCA home networking chips in the next six months and we expect other semiconductor manufacturers to compete with us in the manufacture and sale of MoCA-compliant chipsets in the future. Moreover, deployment of services or electronic devices utilizing MoCA-based solutions may be delayed or slower than we anticipate. If the market for MoCA-based solutions does not continue to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, or if we make errors in predicting adoption and deployment rates for these solutions, our revenues may be significantly adversely affected. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of service providers, ODMs and OEMs to adopt the MoCA standard for multimedia content delivery. To date, only a limited number of major service providers, such as Verizon, DIRECTV, Time Warner, Cox and BHN had publicly announced their intention to use the MoCA standard for home networking. Some service providers, ODMs and OEMs have adopted and others may adopt multimedia content delivery solutions that rely on technologies other than the MoCA standard or may choose to wait for the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, MoCA-based solutions. It is critical to our success that additional service providers, including telecommunications carriers, digital broadcast satellite service providers and cable operators, adopt the MoCA standard for home networking. Even if service providers, ODMs and OEMs adopt multimedia content delivery solutions based on the MoCA standard, we may not compete successfully in the market for MoCA-compliant chipsets. As a member of MoCA, we are required to license any of our patent claims that are essential to implement the MoCA specifications to other MoCA members on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. As a result, we are required to license some of our important intellectual property to other MoCA members, including other semiconductor manufacturers that may compete with us in the sale of MoCA-compliant chipsets. If we are unable to differentiate our MoCA-compliant chipsets from other MoCA-compliant chipsets by offering superior pricing and features outside MoCA specifications, we may not be able to compete effectively in the market for such chipsets. Moreover, although we are currently and actively involved in the ongoing development of the MoCA standard, we cannot guarantee that future MoCA specifications will incorporate technologies or product features we are developing or that our products will be compatible with future MoCA specifications. As additional members, including our competitors, continue to join MoCA, they and existing members may exert greater influence on MoCA and the development of the MoCA standard in a manner that is adverse to our interests. If our home networking products fail to comply with future MoCA specifications, the demand for these products could be severely reduced. The semiconductor and communications industries have historically experienced cyclical behavior and prolonged downturns, which could impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The semiconductor and communications industries, which have historically exhibited cyclical behavior, are both currently experiencing industry downturns and are likely to experience recessionary periods in the future. The economic turmoil that arose in the credit markets in 2008 and 28 Table of Contents 2009 caused a deterioration in global economic conditions and has had an adverse effect on the ability of businesses to obtain short and long term funding for working capital. As a result, even as the economy recovers, some service providers, OEMs and ODMs may slow down their research and development activities, cancel or delay new product development, reduce their inventories and/or take a cautious approach to acquiring products, which may lead to a significant negative impact to our business. Because a significant portion of our expenses is fixed in the near term or is incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenues during industry downturns, which could adversely affect our operating results. Even during periods of increased demand and industry growth, we may experience production constraints which could limit our ability to produce sufficient quantities of our products to meet the increased demand. We may also have difficulty in obtaining sufficient manufacturing, assembly and test resources from our manufacturers. Any factor adversely affecting either the semiconductor or communications industry in general, or the particular segments of any of these industries that our products target, may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and could negatively impact our operating results, cash flow and financial condition. In addition, our operating results may also fluctuate significantly from period to period as we adjust our inventory and production requirements to meet the changing demands of our customers during this period and in the future, which may increase the volatility of the price of our stock. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future, which could lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate, on an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These fluctuations in our operating results may cause our stock price to fluctuate as well. The primary factors that are likely to affect our quarterly and annual operating results include: • changes in demand for our products or those offered by service providers and our customers; • the timing and amount of orders, especially from significant service providers and customers; • the seasonal nature of the sales of products that incorporate our products by certain service providers which may affect the timing of orders for our products; • the level and timing of capital spending of service providers, both in the United States and in international markets; • competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by us or our competitors; • adverse market perception of MoCA-compliant products; • our unpredictable and lengthy sales cycles; • the mix of products and product configurations sold; • our ability to successfully define, design and release new products on a timely basis that meet customers’ or service providers’ needs; • costs related to acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses; • new product introductions and enhancements, or the market anticipation of new products and enhancements, by us or our competitors; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables and the effect of our use of inventory “hubbing” arrangements; 29 Table of Contents • unexpected changes in our operating expenses; • general economic conditions (including the current industry and economic downturn) and political conditions in the countries where we operate or our products are sold or used; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products, including adequate allocation of wafer, assembly and test capacity for our products by our subcontractors; • our customers’ ability to obtain other components needed to manufacture their products; • the cost and availability of components and raw materials used in our products, including, without limitation, increases in the price of gold; • changes in manufacturing costs, including wafer, test and assembly costs, manufacturing yields and product quality and reliability; • productivity of our sales and marketing force; • our inability to reduce operating expenses in a particular quarter if revenues for that quarter fall below expectations; • future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies; • costs associated with litigation; and • changes in domestic and international regulatory environments. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors, many of which are beyond our control, could significantly harm our business and results of operations. You should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating results may be harmed if our 2009 restructuring plan does not achieve the anticipated results or causes undesirable consequences. In 2009, we implemented a restructuring plan which resulted in us reducing our workforce by a total of 55 individuals. Even though the reduction in our work force was announced more than nine months ago, these restructuring plans may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our intended reduction in workforce and reduced employee morale, which may cause our employees who were not affected by the reduction in workforce to seek alternate employment. Additional attrition could impede our ability to meet our operational goals, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, as a result of the reductions in our workforce, we face an increased risk of employment litigation. Furthermore, employees whose positions were eliminated in connection with these restructuring plans may have sought, or seek, future employment with our competitors. Although all our employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of hire, we cannot assure you that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment. We cannot assure you that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities, that any of our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or any future restructuring plans. In addition, if we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to any new growth or revenue opportunities. Adverse U.S. and international economic conditions have affected and may continue to adversely affect our revenues, margins and profitability. Since September 2008, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention 30 Table of Contents from the U.S. federal government. These events, together with the current adverse economic conditions facing the broader economy and, in particular, the semiconductor and communications industries, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business as service providers cut back or delay deployments that include our products and to the extent that consumers decrease their discretionary spending for enhanced video offerings from service providers, which may in turn lead to cautious or reduced spending by service providers and, in turn, may lead to a decrease in orders for our products, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. Our operating results may also be adversely affected if the State of California adopts laws to suspend net operating loss deductions as it has done in the past in response to the sharp decrease in tax revenue collections caused by the current adverse economic conditions. We may also experience adverse conditions in our cost base due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates that reduce the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar, increase research and development expenses and other factors. These conditions may harm our margins and prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability if we are unable to increase the selling prices of our products or reduce our costs sufficiently to offset the effects of effective increases in our costs. Our attempts to offset the effects of cost increase through controlling our expenses, passing cost increases on to our customers or any other method may not succeed. The success of our digital broadcast satellite outdoor unit products depends on the demand for our products within the satellite digital television market and the growth of this overall market. In addition to our MoCA home networking products, we also derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales of our digital broadcast satellite outdoor unit products into markets served by digital broadcast satellite providers and their ODM and OEM partners. The digital broadcast satellite market may not grow in the future as anticipated or a significant market slowdown may occur, which would in turn reduce the demand for applications or devices, such as set-top boxes and low-noise block converters that rely on our digital broadcast satellite outdoor unit products. Because of the intense competition in the satellite, terrestrial and cable digital television markets, the unproven technology of many products addressing these markets and the short product life cycles of many consumer applications or devices, it is difficult to predict the potential size and future growth rate of the markets for our digital broadcast satellite outdoor unit products. If the demand for our digital broadcast satellite outdoor unit products is not as great as we expect, or if we are unable to produce competitive products to meet that demand, our revenues could be adversely affected. Market-specific risks affecting the digital television, digital television set-top boxes and digital television peripheral markets could impair our ability to successfully sell our silicon tuners. The market for digital television applications in digital televisions, digital television set-top boxes and digital television peripherals is characterized by certain market-specific risks, any of which may adversely affect our ability to sell our silicon tuners. For example, sellers of module tuners that offer similar or better functionality than our silicon tuner solutions may dramatically lower their prices and become more competitive than we in the tuner market. In addition, our silicon tuners may not meet the specifications or have the feature sets desired by our customers or may not be architecturally compatible with other components in the customers’ designs. Our efforts to penetrate the digital television market, in particular, will depend on our ability to overcome these and other challenges. To the extent our efforts are adversely affected by any of these risks or are otherwise unsuccessful, the demand for our silicon tuner products may not develop as anticipated or decline which would adversely affect our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents The success of our silicon tuners is highly dependent on our relationships with demodulator manufacturers. Our silicon tuners are designed to be interoperable with various specific demodulator integrated circuit products that are designed and manufactured by other companies. Historically, we have relied on strategic relationships with various demodulator manufacturers to enable both parties to offer an interoperable tuner/demodulator solution to mutual end customers. Although we work in concert with third-party demodulator manufacturers to complete highly functional reference designs, we have no control over their future product plans and product roadmaps and could be effectively designed out of future customer applications by the refusal of such a demodulator manufacturer to continue to support our products. Likewise, our ability to acquire new customers is dependent on the cooperation of third-party demodulator manufacturers. If such third-party manufacturers decide to partner with one of our competitors or to provide their own tuner solutions, we would effectively be prevented from selling our products to potential new customers. Furthermore, our dependence on these third-party demodulator manufacturers often limits our strategic direction. If we were to design products that were competitive with any of such demodulator manufacturers, they may choose to stop working with us. If any of the current or prospective demodulator manufacturers with whom we have or intend to have relationships were to stop working with us in favor of other tuner manufacturers or in favor of deploying their own tuner products, we would be effectively designed out of current and potential customers’ products and the demand for our silicon tuners would be substantially reduced. The market for our broadband access products is limited and these products may not be widely adopted. Our broadband access products are designed to meet broadband access requirements in areas characterized by fiber optic network deployments that terminate within one kilometer of customer premises. We believe the primary geographic markets for our broadband access products are currently in certain Asian countries such as China, Japan and Korea, and parts of Europe where there are many multi-dwelling units and fiber optic networks that extend to or near a customer premises. We do not expect to generate significant revenues from sales of our broadband access products in North America, which is generally characterized by low-density housing, or in developing nations which do not generally have extensive fiber optic networks. To the extent our efforts to sell our broadband access products into currently targeted markets are unsuccessful, the demand for these products may not develop as anticipated or may decline, either of which could adversely affect our future revenues. Moreover, these markets have a large number of service providers and varying regulatory standards, both of which may delay any widespread adoption of our products and increase the time during which competing technologies could be introduced and displace our products. In addition, if areas characterized by fiber optic networks that terminate within one kilometer of customer premises do not continue to grow, or we are unable to develop broadband access products that are competitive outside of these areas, the demand for our broadband access products may not grow and our revenues may be limited. Even if the markets in which our broadband access products are targeted continue to grow or we are able to serve additional markets, customers and service providers may not adopt our technology. There are a growing number of competing technologies for delivering high-speed broadband access from the service provider’s network to the customer’s premises. For example, our broadband access products face competition from products using DOCSIS, versions of DSL, Ethernet and WiMAX-based solutions. Moreover, there are many other access technologies that are currently in development including some low cost proprietary solutions. If service providers adopt competing products or technologies, the demand for our broadband access products will decline and we may not be able to generate significant revenues from these products. 32 Table of Contents We intend to expand our operations and increase our expenditures in an effort to grow our business. If we are not able to manage this expansion and growth, or if our business does not grow as we expect, we may not be able to realize a return on the resources we devote to expansion. We have grown significantly in a short period of time, in part, as a result of our various acquisitions, including our 2007 acquisition of RF Magic. For example, our headcount increased from 83 full-time employees as of December 31, 2006 to 262 as of December 31, 2009. We anticipate that we will continue to expand our infrastructure and grow our headcount to accommodate changes in our research and development strategy and achieve planned expansion of our product offerings, projected increases in our customer base and anticipated growth in the number of our product deployments. The rapid change in the size of our organization has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our success in managing our operations and changes in size will be dependent upon our ability to: • enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; • expand our facilities and equipment and develop new sources of supply for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our semiconductor products; • successfully hire, train, motivate and productively deploy additional employees, including technical personnel; and • expand our international resources. Our inability to address effectively any of these factors, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy. Further, we intend to continue to grow our business by entering new markets, developing new product offerings and pursuing new customers. If we fail to timely or efficiently expand operational and financial systems in connection with such growth or if we fail to implement or maintain effective internal controls and procedures, resulting operating inefficiencies could increase costs and expenses more than we planned and might cause us to lose the ability to take advantage of market opportunities, enhance existing products, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, respond to competitive pressures, control our inventory or otherwise execute our business plan. Failure to implement or maintain such controls and procedures could also impact our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements. Additionally, if we increase our operating expenses in anticipation of the growth of our business and such growth does not meet our expectations, our financial results likely would be negatively impacted. Any acquisition, strategic relationship, joint venture or investment could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We actively pursue acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures, collaborations or investments that we believe may allow us to complement our growth strategy, increase market share in our current markets or expand into adjacent markets, or broaden our technology and intellectual property. Such transactions may be complex, time consuming and expensive, and may present numerous challenges and risks including: • difficulties in assimilating any acquired workforce and merging operations; • attrition and the loss of key personnel; • an acquired company, asset or technology, or a strategic collaboration or licensed asset or technology not furthering our business strategy as anticipated; 33 Table of Contents • our overpayment for a company, asset or technology or changes in the economic or market conditions or assumptions underlying our decision to make an acquisition; • difficulties entering and competing in new product or geographic markets and increased competition, including price competition; • significant problems or liabilities, including increased intellectual property and employment related litigation exposure, associated with acquired businesses, assets or technologies; • in connection with any such transaction, the need to use a significant portion of our available cash, issue additional equity securities that would dilute the then-current stockholders’ percentage ownership or incur substantial debt or contingent liabilities; • requirements to devote substantial managerial and engineering resources to any strategic relationship, joint venture or collaboration, which could detract from our other efforts or significantly increase our costs; • lack of control over the actions of our business partners in any strategic relationship, joint venture or collaboration, which could significantly delay the introduction of planned products or otherwise make it difficult or impossible to realize the expected benefits of such relationship; and • requirements to record substantial charges and amortization expense related to certain intangible assets, deferred stock compensation and other items. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or investments after we have expended resources on them. In addition, from time to time we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions, relationships, joint ventures or investments that are not ultimately consummated. These negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or investments, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating or financial results. Any such transaction could disrupt our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. We may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from the businesses we have acquired or be able to successfully integrate such businesses with ours. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize the benefits or synergies from the acquisitions we have completed to date. These challenges include the following: • integrating businesses, operations and technologies; • retaining and assimilating key personnel; • retaining existing customers and attracting additional customers; • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; • meeting the challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees, including some at geographic locations distant from our headquarters and senior management; and • implementing appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. 34 Table of Contents Integration in particular may involve considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include the following: • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of the operations, technology and other resources of the acquired companies; • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and customers; and • potential unknown or contingent liabilities. The inability to integrate successfully any businesses we acquire, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could delay introduction of new products and require expenditure of additional resources to achieve integration. For example, although we recorded significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets in connection with the acquisitions we completed in 2007 and 2008, as a result of the recent industry and economic turmoil and its effects on our market value and business outlook, we had to reduce the carrying amount of all of these long-lived assets and, as of December 31, 2009, we have recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $113.4 million against our goodwill and intangible assets carrying value related to these acquisitions. Investors should not rely on attempts to combine our historical financial results with those of any of our acquired businesses as separate operating entities to predict our future results of operations as a combined entity. The average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over time and will likely do so in the future, which may reduce our revenues and gross margin. Our products and products sold by other companies in our industry have historically experienced a decrease in average selling prices over time. We anticipate that the average selling prices of our products will continue to decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts and new product introductions by our competitors. For example, we expect that other chipset manufacturers who are members of MoCA will produce competing chipsets and create pricing pressure for such products and Broadcom has announced the availability of competing chipsets for certain applications. Our future operating results may be harmed due to the decrease of our average selling prices. To maintain our current gross margins or increase our gross margins in the future, we must develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements, continually reduce our product costs and manage product transitions in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to do so would likely cause our revenues and gross margins to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause the value of our common stock to decline. Our product development efforts are time-consuming, require substantial research and development expenditures and may not generate an acceptable return. Our product development efforts require substantial research and development expense. Our research and development expense was $45.2 million and $55.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will achieve an acceptable return on our research and development efforts. The development of our products is also highly complex. Due to the relatively small size of our product design teams, our research and development efforts in our core technologies may lag behind those of our competitors, some of whom have substantially greater financial and technical resources. 35 Table of Contents We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. Unanticipated problems in developing products could also divert substantial engineering resources, which may impair our ability to develop new products and enhancements and could substantially increase our costs. Furthermore, we may expend significant amounts on a research and development program that may not ultimately result in a commercially successful product, and we have in the past terminated ongoing research and development programs before they could be brought to successful conclusions. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, and any new products we develop and offer may never achieve market acceptance. Any failure to develop future products that would enjoy commercial success would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate, and a service provider, ODM or OEM customer may decide to cancel or change its service or product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A service provider must first evaluate our products. This initial evaluation period can vary considerably based on the service provider and product being evaluated, and could take a significant amount of time to complete. Products incorporating new technologies generally require longer periods for evaluation. After this initial evaluation period, if a service provider decides to adopt our products, that service provider and the applicable ODM or OEM customers will need to further test and evaluate our products prior to completing the design of the equipment that will incorporate our products. Additional time is needed to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. Due to these lengthy sales cycles, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur research and development and sales expenses until the time, if ever, that we generate sales from these products. The delays inherent in these lengthy sales cycles increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its product plans. From time to time, we have experienced changes, delays and cancellations in the purchase plans of our customers. A cancellation or change in plans by a service provider, ODM or OEM customer could prevent us from realizing anticipated sales. In addition, our anticipated sales could be lost or substantially reduced if a significant service provider, ODM or OEM customer reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle or chooses not to release equipment that contains our products. We may invest significant time and effort in marketing to a particular customer that does not ultimately result in a sale to that customer. As a result of these lengthy and uncertain sales cycles for our products, it is difficult for us to predict if or when our customers may purchase products in volume from us, and our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may negatively affect our operating results for any given quarter. Fluctuations in the mix of products we sell may adversely affect our financial results. Because of differences in selling prices and manufacturing costs among our products, the mix and types of products sold affect the average selling price of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenues and profit margins. To the extent our sales mix shifts toward increased sales of our lower-margin products, our overall gross margins will be negatively affected. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products sold may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover our costs and expenditures that are associated with a particular product, and as a result can negatively impact our financial results. 36 Table of Contents If we do not complete our design-in activities before a customer’s design window closes, we will lose the design opportunity, which could adversely affect our future sales and revenues and harm our customer relationships. The timing of our design-in activities with key customers and prospective customers may not align with their open design windows, which may or may not be known to us, making design win predictions more difficult. If we miss a particular customer’s design window, we may be forced to wait an entire year or even longer for the next opportunity to compete for the customer’s next design. The loss of a particular design opportunity could eliminate or substantially delay revenues from certain target customers and markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and future prospects as well as our customer relationships. Our products must interoperate with many software applications and hardware found in service providers’ networks and other devices in the home, and if they do not interoperate properly, our business would be harmed. Our products must interoperate with service providers’ networks and other devices in the home, which often have varied and complex specifications, utilize multiple protocol standards, software applications and products from multiple vendors, and contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with existing and planned future networks. To meet these requirements, we must undertake development efforts that involve significant expense and the dedication of substantial employee resources. We may not accomplish these development efforts quickly or cost-effectively, if at all. If we fail to maintain or anticipate compatibility with products, software or equipment found in our customers’ networks, we may face substantially reduced demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. From time to time, we may enter into collaborations or interoperability arrangements with equipment and software vendors providing for the use, integration or interoperability of their technology with our products. These arrangements would give us access to and enable interoperability with various products or technologies in the connected home entertainment market. If these relationships fail to achieve their goals, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the development of alternative products and the support of our existing products, or the addressable market for our products may become limited. In many cases, these parties are either companies that we compete with directly in other areas or companies that have extensive relationships with our existing and potential customers and may have influence over the purchasing decisions of these customers. A number of our competitors have stronger relationships than we do with some of our existing and potential customers and, as a result, our ability to have successful arrangements with these companies may be harmed. Our failure to establish or maintain key relationships with third-party equipment and software vendors may harm our ability to successfully sell and market our products. We are currently devoting significant resources to the development of these relationships. Our operating results could be adversely affected if these efforts do not result in the revenues necessary to offset these investments. In addition, if we find errors in the software or hardware used in service providers’ networks or problematic network configurations or settings we may have to modify our products so that they will interoperate with service providers’ networks. This could cause longer installation times for our products and order cancellations, either of which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, and if we fail to forecast demand for our products accurately, we may incur product shortages, delays in product shipments or excess or insufficient product inventory. We sell our products to customers who integrate them into their products. We do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our customers are selling or carrying in their inventory. In addition, certain service providers are affected by seasonality in their deployment of products that incorporate our products, which may in turn impact the timing of our sales. Because production lead times often exceed the amount of time required to fulfill orders, we often must build inventory in advance of orders, relying on an imperfect demand forecast to project volumes and product mix. Our demand forecast accuracy can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including inaccurate forecasting by our customers, changes in market conditions, adverse changes in our product order mix and demand for our customers’ products. We have in the past had customers dramatically decrease and increase their requested production quantities with little or no advance notice. Even after an order is received, our customers may cancel these orders, postpone taking delivery or request a decrease in production quantities. Any such cancellation, postponement of delivery or decrease in production quantity subjects us to a number of risks, most notably that our projected sales will not materialize on schedule or at all, leading to unanticipated revenue shortfalls, reduced profit margins and excess or obsolete inventory which we may be unable to sell to other customers or which we must sell at reduced prices, or that any resulting disputes with our customers may adversely impact our future relationships with those customers. Alternatively, if we are unable to project customer requirements accurately, we may not build enough products, which could lead to delays in product shipments and lost sales opportunities in the near term, as well as force our customers to identify alternative sources of supply, which could affect our ongoing relationships with these customers and potentially reduce our market share. If we do not timely fulfill customer demands, our customers may cancel their orders and we may be subject to customer claims for cost of replacement. Our ability to accurately predict revenues and inventory needs, and to effectively manage inventory levels, may be adversely impacted due to our use of inventory “hubbing” arrangements. We are party to an inventory “hubbing” arrangement with Motorola and we may enter into similar arrangements with other customers in the future. Pursuant to these arrangements, we ship our products to a designated third-party warehouse, or hub, rather than shipping them directly to the customer. The products generally remain in the hub until the customer removes them for incorporation into its own products. In the absence of any hubbing arrangement, we generally recognize revenues on sales of our products upon shipment of those products to the buyer. Under our hubbing arrangement with Motorola, however, we maintain ownership of our products in the hub, and therefore do not recognize the related revenue, until the date Motorola removes them from the hub. As a result, our ability to accurately predict future revenues recognized from sales to Motorola or any other customers with which we implement hubbing arrangements may be impaired, and we may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results depending on when Motorola or any such other customers remove our products from the hub, which they may do with little or no lead time. In the short term, we may experience an increase in operating expenses as we build and ship inventory to the hub and may not recognize revenues from sales of this inventory, if at all, until Motorola or any such other customers remove it from the hub at a later time. Furthermore, because we continue to own but do not maintain control over our products after they are shipped to the hub, our ability to effectively manage inventory levels may be impaired as our shipments under the hubbing arrangement increase and we may be exposed to additional risk that the inventory in the hub becomes obsolete before sales are recognized. 38 Table of Contents We extend credit to our customers, sometimes in large amounts, but there is no guarantee every customer will be able to pay our invoices when they become due. As part of our routine business, we extend credit to customers purchasing our products. While our customers may have the ability to pay on the date of shipment or on the date credit is granted, their financial condition could change and there is no guarantee that customers will ever pay the invoices. Rapid changes in our customers’ financial conditions and risks associated with extending credit to our customers can subject us to a higher financial risk and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products which reduces our control over key aspects of our products and their availability. We do not own or operate a manufacturing, assembly or test facility for our products. Rather, we outsource the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products to third-party subcontractors including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, TowerJazz, Amkor Technologies, Inc. and Giga Solution Tech. Co., Ltd. Accordingly, we are greatly dependent on a limited number of suppliers to deliver quality products on time. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers involves several risks, including susceptibility to increased manufacturing costs if competition for foundry capacity intensifies and reduced control over the following: • supply of our products available for sale; • pricing, quality and timely delivery of our products; • prices and availability of components for our products; and • production capacity for our products. Because we rely on a limited number of third-party manufacturers, if we were required to change contract manufacturers or one of our contract manufacturers became unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our products, we may sustain lost revenues, increased costs and damage to our customer relationships. In addition, we would need to expend significant time and effort to locate and qualify new third-party manufacturers, if available. Manufacturing defects may not be detected by the testing process performed by our subcontractors. If defects are discovered after we have shipped our products, we may be exposed to warranty and consequential damages claims from our customers. Such claims may have a significant adverse impact on our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, if we are unable to deliver quality products, our reputation would be harmed, which could result in the loss of future orders and business with our customers. When demand for manufacturing capacity is high, we may take various actions to try to secure sufficient capacity, which may be costly and negatively impact our operating results. The ability of each of our subcontractors’ manufacturing facilities to provide us with chipsets is limited by their available capacity and existing obligations. Although we have purchase order commitments to supply specified levels of products to our customers, we do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity from any of our subcontractors’ facilities to produce our products. Facility capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. In addition, our subcontractors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and thereby reduce deliveries to us on short notice. 39 Table of Contents In order to secure sufficient manufacturing facility capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks associated with an inability to meet our customers’ demands for our products, we may enter into various arrangements with subcontractors that could be costly and harm our operating results, including: • option payments or other prepayments to a subcontractor; • nonrefundable deposits with or loans to subcontractors in exchange for capacity commitments; • contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of components over extended periods; and • purchase of testing equipment for specific use at the facilities of our subcontractors. We may not be able to make any such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties and obligations may be expensive and require significant capital and could harm our business. We believe that transitioning certain of our silicon products to newer or better manufacturing process technologies will be important to our future competitive position. If we fail to make this transition efficiently, our competitive position could be seriously harmed. We continually evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to higher performance or lower cost process technologies in order to produce higher performance, more efficient or better integrated circuits because we believe this migration is required to remain competitive. Other companies in our industry have experienced difficulty in migrating to new process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We may experience similar difficulties. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with subcontractors to successfully migrate to newer or better process technologies. Our third-party manufacturers may not make newer or better process technologies available to us on a timely or cost-effective basis, if at all. If our third-party manufacturers do not make newer or better manufacturing process technologies available to us on a timely or cost-effective basis, or if we experience difficulties in migrating to these processes, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. We rely on sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. We sell our products to some of our customers through third-party sales representatives and distributors. Our relationships with some of these third-party sales representatives and distributors are relatively new and we are unable to predict the extent to which our third-party sales representatives and distributors will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our third-party sales representatives and distributors also market and sell competing products. Our third-party sales representatives and distributors may terminate their relationships with us at any time, or with short notice, and may give greater attention to the products sold by our competitors. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional third-party sales representatives and distributors that will be able to market our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain our current third-party sales representatives and distributors and recruit additional or replacement third-party sales representatives and distributors, our revenues and operating results could be harmed. 40 Table of Contents Our products may contain defects or errors which may adversely affect their market acceptance and our reputation and expose us to product liability claims. Our products are very complex and may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite testing, errors may occur. Product errors could affect the performance of our products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’ willingness to buy products from us, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, cause us to incur substantial costs in redesigning our products, subject us to liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks. Our products must successfully interoperate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a device or application in which our product is used, it may be difficult to identify the sources of these problems. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our products, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products, and therefore delay our ability to recognize revenue from sales, and any necessary revisions may cause us to incur significant expenses. Moreover, since one of the key benefits of our home networking products is reduction of the need for service providers to dispatch service vehicles to customer premises, often referred to as “truck rolls,” problems with our products would likely result in a greater number of truck rolls and this in turn could adversely affect our sales. The occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale may not fully or effectively protect us from claims as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. The use of our products also entails the risk of product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any claim asserted against us. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert management’s time and other resources. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. Even during the recent economic downturn, there continues to be competition for qualified personnel in the markets in which we compete. In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego, California area, where our corporate headquarters is located, has proved to be an obstacle to attracting new employees in the past, and we expect that this will continue to impact, to some extent, our ability to attract and retain employees in the future. We do not have employment agreements with most of our executive or key employees and the unexpected loss of any key employees, including Patrick Henry, our president and chief executive officer, other members of our senior management or our senior engineering personnel, or an inability to attract additional qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development, introduction and sale of our products and our ability to execute our business strategy may suffer. In addition, in the event that there is a loss of key personnel, there is a potential for loss of important knowledge that may delay or negatively impact development or sale of our products and our ability to execute on our business strategy. We do not currently have any key person life insurance covering any executive officer or employee. 41 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with environmental regulatory requirements, our operating results could be adversely affected. We face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our products. The European Union has adopted certain directives to facilitate the recycling of electrical and electronic equipment sold in the European Union, including the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, directive that restricts the use of lead, mercury and certain other substances in electrical and electronic products placed on the market in the European Union after July 1, 2006, and many other countries, including China, Taiwan and Korea, where the majority of our products are manufactured and packaged and sold, have also adopted similar directives banning or limiting the use of specified substances in products introduced into their domestic markets. We have incurred costs in connection with our compliance with these environmental laws and regulations, such as costs related to eliminating lead from our semiconductor product packaging. Other environmental regulations may be enacted in the future, including in the United States, that require us to reengineer our products to utilize components that are compatible with these regulations, and this reengineering and component substitution may result in additional costs to us or disrupt our operations or logistics. If we or the third-party manufacturers of our products are unable to meet future environmental regulations in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our customers’ products and service providers’ services are subject to governmental regulation. Governmental regulation could place constraints on our customers and service providers’ services and consequently reduce our customers’ demand for our products. For example, the Federal Communications Commission has broad jurisdiction over products that emit radio frequency signals in the United States. Similar governmental agencies regulate these products in other countries. Moreover, laws and regulations regarding local cable franchising could have an adverse effect on Verizon’s and other service providers’ ability to compete in the HD video and multimedia content delivery market. Although most of our products are not directly subject to current regulations of the Federal Communications Commission or any other federal or state communications regulatory agency, much of the equipment into which these products are incorporated is subject to direct governmental regulation. Accordingly, the effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may, in turn, impede sales of our products. For example, demand for these products will decrease if equipment into which they are incorporated fails to comply with the specifications of the Federal Communications Commission. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business. We intend to continue spending substantial amounts in connection with our expansion in order to grow our business. We may need to obtain additional financing to pursue our business strategy, develop new products, respond to competition and market opportunities and acquire complementary businesses or technologies. We may not be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. Although we currently have access to a $10.0 million line of credit under the terms of our existing Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, of which $7.0 million was available at December 31, 2009, the current turmoil in the credit markets may affect SVB’s willingness or ability to provide us with full access to our line of credit when needed or to renew the term of the credit line when it expires in April 2010. 42 Table of Contents If we were to raise additional capital through further sales of our equity securities, our stockholders would suffer dilution of their equity ownership. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, prohibit us from paying dividends, repurchasing our stock or making investments, and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: • develop or enhance our products; • continue to expand our product development and sales and marketing organizations; • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; • expand operations, in the United States or internationally; • hire, train and retain employees; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy and may force us to curtail our research and development plans or existing operations. Our costs have increased significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices that did not previously exist. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. Our management and other personnel now devote a substantial amount of time to these new requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations cause us to incur significant legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, commencing in year 2008, we must now perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management efforts. If we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ, SEC or other regulatory authorities. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, and we may not derive the anticipated tax benefits from any expansion of our international operations. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our effective tax rate is directly affected by the relative proportions of revenue and income before taxes in the various domestic and international jurisdictions in which we operate. We are also subject to changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings. Changes in applicable tax laws may 43 Table of Contents cause fluctuations between reporting periods in which the changes take place. If our business opportunities outside the United States continue to grow, we may expand our international operations and staff to better support our expansion into international markets. We anticipate that this expansion will include the implementation of an international organizational structure that could result in an increasing percentage of our consolidated pre-tax income being derived from, and reinvested in, our international operations. Moreover, we anticipate that this pre-tax income will be subject to foreign tax at relatively lower tax rates when compared to the U.S. federal statutory tax rate and as a consequence, our future effective income tax rate may be lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. There can be no assurance that significant pre-tax income will be derived from or reinvested in our international operations, that our international operations and sales will result in a lower effective income tax rate, or that we will implement an international organizational structure. In addition, our future effective income tax rate could be adversely affected if tax authorities challenge any international tax structure that we implement or if the relative mix of U.S. and international income changes for any reason. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our effective income tax rate will be less than the U.S. federal statutory rate. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited, which could result in our payment of income taxes earlier than if we were able to fully utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. As of December 31, 2009, we had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $67.9 million, $50.1 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of $9.8 million and $9.4 million, respectively. The tax benefits related to utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited due to ownership changes or as a result of other events. For example, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Internal Revenue Code, imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards that may be used to offset federal taxable income and federal tax liabilities when a corporation has undergone a significant change in its ownership. While prior changes in our ownership, including as a result of our acquisition of RF Magic, have resulted in annual limitations on the amount of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that may be utilized in the future, we do not anticipate that such annual limitations will preclude the utilization of substantially all the net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards described above in the event we become profitable. However, to the extent our use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is further limited by the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering or in future offerings or transactions or by our implementation of an international tax structure or other future events, our income would be subject to cash payments of income tax earlier than it would be if we were able to fully utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards without such further limitation. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit markets and prices of marketable equity and fixed-income securities. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to further write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio is 44 Table of Contents affected by the credit condition of the U.S. financial sector. With the current unstable credit environment of the U.S. financial sector, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to compete and our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to secure or protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our patent applications may not issue as patents at all or they may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us. Our issued patents and those that may issue in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to invalidate or design around our patents. Furthermore, although we have entered into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements. Moreover, we are required to license any of our patent claims that are essential to implement MoCA specifications to other MoCA members, who could potentially include our competitors, on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. In addition, in connection with commercial arrangements with our customers and the service providers who deploy equipment containing our products, we may be required to license our intellectual property to third parties, including competitors or potential competitors. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to prevent such unauthorized use will be successful, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as comprehensively as in the United States. In addition, if we become aware of a third party’s unauthorized use or misappropriation of our technology, it may not be practicable, effective or cost-efficient for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, particularly where the initiation of a claim might harm our business relationships or risk a costly and protracted lawsuit, including a potential countersuit by a competitor with patents that may implicate our products. If competitors engage in unauthorized use or misappropriation of our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. Our participation in “patent pools” and standards setting organizations, or other business arrangements, may require us to license our patents to competitors and other third parties and limit our ability to enforce or collect royalties for our patents. In addition to our existing obligations to license our patent claims that are essential to implement the MoCA specifications to other MoCA members, in the course of participating in patent pools and other standards setting organizations or pursuant to other business arrangements, we may agree to license certain of our technologies on a reasonable and non-discriminatory basis and, as a result, our control over the license of such technologies may be limited. We may also be unable to limit to whom we license some of our technologies, and may be unable to restrict many terms of the license. Consequently, our competitors may obtain the right to use our technology. In addition, our control over the application and quality control of our technologies that are included in patent pools or otherwise necessary for implementing industry standards may be limited. 45 Table of Contents Any dispute with a MoCA member regarding what patent claims are necessary to implement MoCA specifications could result in litigation which could have an adverse effect on our business. We are required to grant to other MoCA members a non-exclusive and world-wide license on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms to any of our patent claims that are essential to implement MoCA specifications. If we had a disagreement with a MoCA member regarding which of our patent claims are necessary to implement MoCA specifications, this could result in a lawsuit. Any such lawsuit, regardless of its merits, could be time-consuming, expensive to resolve, divert our management’s time and attention and harm our reputation. In addition, any such litigation could result in us being required to license on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms certain of our patent claims which we previously believed did not need to be licensed under our MoCA agreement. This could have an adverse effect on our business and harm our competitive position. Possible third-party claims of infringement of proprietary rights against us, our customers or the service providers that purchase products from our customers, or other intellectual property claims or disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. The semiconductor industry is characterized by a relatively high level of litigation based on allegations of infringement of proprietary rights. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we are selling and developing products. Because patent applications take many years to issue, currently pending applications, known or unknown to us, may later result in issued patents that we infringe. In addition, third parties continue to actively seek new patents in our field. It is difficult or impossible to keep fully abreast of these developments, and therefore, as we develop new and enhanced products, we may sell or distribute products that inadvertently infringe patents held by third parties. We have in the past received and we, our customers or the service providers that purchase products from our customers may in the future receive inquiries from other patent holders and may become subject to claims that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claim or dispute, regardless of its merits, could force us, our customers or the service providers that purchase our products from our customers to license the third-party’s patents for substantial royalty payments or cease the sale of the alleged infringing products or use of the alleged infringing technologies, or force us to defend ourselves and possibly our customers or contract manufacturers in litigation. Any cessation of product sales by us, our customers or the service providers that purchase products from our customers could have a substantial negative impact on our revenues. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of our management’s time and other resources. Moreover, any such litigation could subject us, our customers or the service providers that purchase our products from our customers to significant liability for damages (including treble damages), temporary or permanent injunctions, or the invalidation of proprietary rights or require us, our customers or the service providers that purchase products from our customers to license the third-party patents for substantial royalty or other payments. In addition, we may also be required to indemnify our customers and contract manufacturers for damages they suffer as a result of such infringement or litigation. Our use of open source and third-party software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products, including certain open source code which is governed by the GNU General Public License, Lesser GNU General Public License and Common Development and Distribution License. The terms of many open source licenses have not 46 Table of Contents been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, make our proprietary code generally available in source code form (for example, proprietary code that links in particular ways to certain open source modules), which would result in our trade secrets being disclosed to the public and the potential loss of intellectual property rights in our software, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a cost-effective and timely basis, or become subject to other consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition to technologies we have already licensed, we may find that we need to incorporate certain proprietary third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technologies may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until alternative technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. Such alternative technology may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all, and may ultimately not be as effective as the preferred technology. Any such delays or failures to obtain licenses, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Because we license some of our software source code directly to customers, we face increased risks that our trade secrets will be exposed through inadvertent or intentional disclosure, which could harm our competitive position or increase our costs. We license some of our software source code to our customers, which increases the number of people who have access to some of our trade secrets and other proprietary rights. Contractual obligations of our licensees not to disclose or misuse our source code may not be sufficient to prevent such disclosure or misuse. The costs of enforcing contractual rights could substantially increase our operating costs and may not be cost-effective, reasonable under the circumstances or ultimately succeed in protecting our proprietary rights. If our competitors access our source code, they may gain further insight into the technology and design of our products, which would harm our competitive position. Risks Related to International Operations We expect a significant portion of our future revenues to come from our international customers, and, as a result, our business may be harmed by political and economic conditions in foreign markets and the challenges associated with operating internationally. We have derived, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from international markets. Net revenues outside of the United States comprised 97% and 98% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. International business activities involve certain risks, including: • difficulties involved in the staffing and management of geographically dispersed operations; • longer sales cycles in certain countries, especially on initial entry into a new geographical market; • greater difficulty evaluating a customer’s ability to pay, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and greater difficulty in the collection of past-due accounts; • general economic conditions in each country; • challenges associated with operating in diverse cultural and legal environments; 47 Table of Contents • seasonal reductions in business activity specific to certain markets; • loss of revenue, property and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism and other political risks; • foreign taxes and the overlap of different tax structures, including modifications to the United States tax code as a result of international trade regulations; • foreign technical standards; • changes in currency exchange rates; and • import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions. To the extent our international sales are adversely affected by any of these risks or are otherwise unsuccessful, we could experience a reduction in revenue and our operating results could suffer. In addition, certain foreign countries where we sell our products, such as China and Korea, have historically limited recognition and enforcement of contractual and intellectual property rights. In particular, we may have difficulty preventing ODMs and OEMs in these countries from incorporating our inventions, technologies, copyrights or trademarks into their products without our authorization or without paying us licensing fees. We may also experience difficulty enforcing our intellectual property rights in these countries, where intellectual property rights are not as respected as they are in the United States, Japan and Europe. Unauthorized use of our technologies and intellectual property rights may dilute or undermine the strength of our brand. Further, if we are not able to adequately monitor the use of our technologies by foreign-based ODMs and OEMs, or enforce our intellectual property rights in foreign countries, our revenue potential could be adversely affected. Our products are subject to export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the United States only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception, in most cases because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations or legislation, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers internationally. In addition, we may be subject to customs duties and export quotas, which could have a significant impact on our revenue and profitability. The future imposition of significant increases in the level of customs duties or export quotas could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our third-party contractors are concentrated primarily in areas subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Any disruption to the operations of these contractors could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products. Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party contractors located in the Pacific Rim. The risk of an earthquake in these areas is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundry, assembly and test subcontractors. The occurrence of earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the disruption of our foundry or 48 Table of Contents assembly and test capacity. Any disruption resulting from such events could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling or testing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. We may not be able to obtain alternate capacity on favorable terms, if at all. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The market price for our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those that sell semiconductor products in particular; • the timing of customer or service provider orders that may cause quarterly or other periodic fluctuations in our results that may, in turn, affect the market price of our common stock; • the seasonal nature of the deployment of products that incorporate our products by certain service providers which may affect the timing of orders for our products; • the timing of revenue recognition on sales arrangements, which may include multiple deliverables, and the effect of our use of inventory “hubbing” arrangements; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our common stock; • the public’s response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC and announcements relating to product development, litigation and intellectual property impacting us or our business; • the sustainability of an active trading market for our common stock; • future sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • announcements of mergers or acquisition transactions; • our inclusion or deletion from certain stock indices; • announcements of technical innovations, new products or design wins by our competitors or customers; • announcements of changes in our senior management; • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to these events; and • changes in accounting principles. 49 Table of Contents In addition, the stock markets, and in particular The NASDAQ Global Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Future sales of our common stock or the issuance of securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock may depress our stock price. A significant number of shares of our common stock are held by a small number of stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, the issuance of securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock or the expectation or perception in the market that the holders of a large number of our shares of common stock intend to sell their shares, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, because the average daily trading volume of our common stock is low, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price for our stock and lead to increased volatility in our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us that you might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • provide that in addition to any vote required by law or by our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the approval by holders of at least 66 2/3% of our then outstanding common stock is required to adopt, amend or repeal any provision of our amended and restated bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. 50 Table of Contents Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors have substantial control over the company, which may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may harm the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and holders of five percent or more of our outstanding common stock, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 24% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may have interests that conflict with our other stockholders and, if acting together, have the ability to substantially influence or determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. The continued expansion of our business will require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Investors seeking cash dividends in the foreseeable future should not purchase or hold our common stock. Our stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market if the closing bid price for our common stock is not maintained at $1.00 per share or higher. Our common stock must trade at or above $1.00 to meet NASDAQ’s minimum bid requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. If the closing bid price of our common stock falls below $1.00, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock. Any such delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease and could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees. In the last 12 months, our common stock has traded at below $1.00 per share at closing for an extended period of time although NASDAQ took no action to delist our common stock at the time as it had suspended its enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price in response to the ongoing turmoil in the stock markets at the time. 51 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 