ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to our business We have a history of losses which may continue in the future. We have a history of losses and we may incur additional losses in future periods. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was $248.1 million. We also expect to continue to make significant expenditures related to the development of our business. These include expenditures to hire additional personnel related to the sales, marketing and development of our products and to maintain and expand our manufacturing facilities and research and development operations. Customer demand is difficult to accurately forecast and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally match production with customer demand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. We make planning and spending decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, and inventory levels, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of commitments by many of our customers and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can strain our resources, cause our manufacturing to be negatively impacted by materials shortages, necessitate higher or more restrictive procurement commitments, increase our manufacturing yield loss and scrapping of excess materials, and reduce our gross margin. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet the volume demands of our customers, or one or more of our suppliers may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our volume demands. Conversely, a downturn in the markets in which our customers compete can cause, and in the past have caused, our customers to significantly reduce or delay the amount of products ordered from us or to cancel existing orders, leading to lower utilization of our facilities. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand due to market downturns or other reasons would have a material adverse effect on our gross margin, operating income and cash flow. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2012, we experienced an increase in manufacturing costs for one of our high speed products and separately, lower utilization of one of our water fabrication facilities, which adversely affected our gross margin in the fourth quarter of 2012. We expect these impacts continue into the second quarter of 2013, which is expected to adversely affect our gross margins for the first and second quarters of 2013. Our products are typically sold pursuant to individual purchase orders or by use of a vendor-managed inventory, or VMI, model, which is a process by which we ship agreed quantities of products to a customer-designated location and those products remain our inventory and we retain the title and risk of loss for those 12 Table of Contents products until the customer takes possession of the products. While our customers generally provide us with their demand forecasts and may give us a promised market share award, they are typically not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products beyond firm purchase orders. Many of our customers may increase, decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience wide fluctuations in demand from customers using VMI, particularly Huawei Technologies, even in instances where we have built and shipped products to the customer-designated locations as VMI. In 2012, there was an increase in the number of our customers utilizing VMI, which may increase our exposure to risks of wide fluctuations in demand from VMI customer locations. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to incur an adverse effect on our revenues, as well as adversely affect our overall results of operations. We are dependent on Huawei Technologies and our other key customers for a significant portion of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, Huawei Technologies or any of our other key customers may reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. Historically, we have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers. In 2012, our largest customer, Huawei Technologies, represented 35.8% of our total revenue and our top ten customers represented 90.2% of our total revenue. As a result, the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, Huawei Technologies or any of our other key customers would materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. For instance, in the three months ended September 30, 2011, demand from Huawei Technologies was lower than expected, which adversely affected our revenue for such period. Adverse events affecting our customers could also adversely affect our revenue and results of operations (for instance, in 2009, the filing of a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection by one of our customers, Nortel Networks Limited, prevented us from timely collection of our accounts receivable from that customer). In addition, network equipment vendors serving the communications networks industry may continue to consolidate, and we may not be able to offset any potential decline in revenue arising from consolidation of our existing customers with revenue from new customers. We are under continuous pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which may adversely affect our gross margins. The communications networks industry has been characterized by declining product prices over time. We have reduced the prices of many of our products in the past and we expect to continue to experience pricing pressure for our products in the future, including from our major customers. When seeking to maintain or increase their market share, our competitors may also reduce the prices of their products. In addition, our customers may have the ability or seek to internally develop and manufacture competing products at a lower cost than we would otherwise charge, which would add additional pressure on us to lower our selling prices. If we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs and expenses or introducing new products, our gross margin would suffer. Increasing costs may adversely impact our gross margins. The rate of increase in our costs and expenses, including as a result of rising labor costs in China, may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our financial condition. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete and any future downturn may reduce demand for our products and revenue. The markets in which we compete are tied to the aggregate capital expenditures of service providers as they build out and upgrade their network infrastructure. These markets are highly cyclical and characterized by 13 Table of Contents constant and rapid technological change, price erosion, evolving standards and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. In the past, including recently to varying degrees in China, the U.S. and Europe, these markets have experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, the maturation of product cycles—for both manufacturers’ and their customers’ products—or in response to over or under purchasing of inventory by our customers relative to ultimate carrier demand, and with declining general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Our historical results of operations have been subject to substantial fluctuations, and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future results of operations. Any future downturn in the markets in which we compete could significantly reduce the demand for our products and therefore may result in a significant reduction in revenue. It may also increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected in the future due to changes in demand from individual customers or cyclical changes in the markets utilizing our products. In addition, the communications networks industry from time to time has experienced and may again experience a pronounced downturn. To respond to a downturn, many service providers may slow their capital expenditures, cancel or delay new developments, reduce their workforces and inventories and take a cautious approach to acquiring new equipment and technologies from original equipment manufacturers, which would have a negative impact on our business. Weakness in the global economy or a future downturn in the communications networks industry may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, harm our business, and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. It could be discovered that our products contain defects that may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention, result in a loss of customers and result in product liability claims. Our products are complex and undergo quality testing as well as formal qualification, both by our customers and by us. However, defects may occur from time to time. Our customers’ testing procedures are limited to evaluating our products under likely and foreseeable failure scenarios and over varying amounts of time. For various reasons, such as the occurrence of performance problems that are unforeseeable in testing or that are detected only when products age or are operated under peak stress conditions, our products may fail to perform as expected long after customer acceptance. Failures could result from faulty components or design, problems in manufacturing or other unforeseen reasons. As a result, we could incur significant costs to repair or replace defective products under warranty, particularly when such failures occur in installed systems. We have experienced such failures in the past and will continue to face this risk going forward, as our products are widely deployed throughout the world in multiple demanding environments and applications. In addition, we may in certain circumstances honor warranty claims after the warranty has expired or for problems not covered by warranty in order to maintain customer relationships. Any significant product failure could result in lost future sales of the affected product and other products, as well as customer relations problems, litigation and damage to our reputation. In addition, our products are typically embedded in, or deployed in conjunction with, our customers’ products, which incorporate a variety of components, modules and subsystems and may be expected to interoperate with modules produced by third parties. As a result, not all defects are immediately detectable and when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects. They could, moreover, impair our customers’ acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we carry product liability insurance which covers this risk, this insurance may not adequately cover our costs arising from defects in our products or otherwise. 14 Table of Contents If spending for communications networks does not continue to grow as expected, our business and financial results may suffer. Our future success as a provider of modules and subsystems to leading network equipment vendors depends on their continued capital spending on global communications networks. Network traffic has experienced rapid growth driven primarily by bandwidth-intensive content, including mobile video and data services, HD and 3D video, music, social networking, video conferencing and other multimedia. This growth is intensified by the proliferation of fixed and wireless network-attached devices, including smartphones, laptops, netbooks, tablet computers, PCs, e-readers, televisions and gaming devices that are enabling consumers to access content at increasing data rates anytime and anywhere. Our future success depends on continued demand for high-bandwidth, high-speed communications networks and the ability of network equipment vendors to meet this demand. Growth in demand for communications networks is limited by several factors, including an evolving regulatory environment and uncertainty regarding long-term sustainable business models. We cannot be certain that demand for bandwidth-intensive content will continue to grow in the future. If expectations for growth of communications networks and bandwidth consumption are not realized and investment in communications networks does not grow as anticipated, our business could be harmed. Manufacturing problems could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations. For instance, we could experience a disruption in our fabrication facilities for our PIC products due to any number of reasons, such as equipment failure, contaminated materials or process deviations, which could adversely impact manufacturing yields or delay product shipments. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect our gross margin, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation. Additionally, manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the stability and manufacturability of the product design, manufacturing improvements gained over cumulative production volumes, the quality and consistency of component parts and the nature and extent of customization requirements by customers. Capacity constraints, raw materials shortages, logistics issues, labor shortages, the introduction of new product lines, rapid increases in production demands and changes in customer requirements, manufacturing facilities or processes, or those of some third party contract manufacturers and suppliers of raw materials and components have historically caused, and may in the future cause, reduced manufacturing yields, negatively impacting the gross margin on, and our production capacity for, those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection and rework rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture would result in our experiencing lower yields, gross margin and production capacity. Our ability to maintain sufficient manufacturing yields is particularly challenging with respect to PICs due to the complexity and required precision of a large number of unique manufacturing process steps. Manufacturing yields for PICs can also suffer if contaminated materials or materials that do not meet highly precise composition requirements are inadvertently utilized. Because a large portion of our PIC manufacturing costs are fixed, PIC manufacturing yields have a substantial effect on our gross margin. Lower than expected manufacturing yields could also delay product shipments and decrease our revenue. It can be hard to cost-effectively increase our production output rapidly, and we can experience yield loss and excess material scrap, which can increase our cost of goods sold and harm our profitability. Also, if we do not have sufficient demand for our PIC-based products our cost of goods sold can increase as the fixed costs of our fabrication facilities are spread over lower production. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2012, we experienced such increased costs with one of our high speed products and one of our wafer fabrication facilities. These higher costs are expected to continue through the second quarter of 2013, and could re-occur due to these or other reasons, in the future. 15 Table of Contents We depend upon an outside contract manufacturer for a portion of the manufacturing process for some of our products. Our operations and revenue related to these products could be adversely affected if we encounter problems with this contract manufacturer. Almost all of our other products are manufactured internally. However we also rely upon a contract manufacturer in Malaysia to produce the finished portion of a few of our products. Our reliance on a contract manufacturer for these products makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, manufacturing quality/controls and costs. For instance, recently our contract manufacturer has been unable to meet all of our customer demand in a timely fashion. Although we have not experienced any adverse impact from these delays, if these issues continue, they could have a materials adverse effect on the revenue from our products. If the contract manufacturer for our products were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in required volumes and at high quality levels or to continue our existing supply arrangement, we would have to identify, qualify and select an acceptable alternative contract manufacturer or move these manufacturing operations to our internal manufacturing facilities. An alternative contract manufacturer may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our quality or production requirements on commercially reasonable terms, including price. Any significant interruption in manufacturing our products would require us to reduce our supply products to our customers, which in turn would reduce our revenue, harm our relationships with the customers of these products and cause us to forego potential revenue opportunities. Our revenues and costs may fluctuate over time, making it difficult to predict our future results of operations. Our revenue, gross margin and results of operations have varied significantly and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. For instance, changes in gross margin may result from various factors, such as changes in pricing, changes in our fixed costs, changes in the cost of labor, changes in the mix of our products sold, changes in the amount of product manufactured versus the amount of product sold over time, and charges for excess and obsolete inventory. In addition, during 2012, we established a Russian subsidiary. However we have limited history operating in the Russian Federation, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and financial prospects there. It is difficult for us to accurately forecast our future revenue and gross margin and plan expenses accordingly and, therefore, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations. We must continually achieve new design wins and enhance existing products or our business and future revenue may be harmed. The markets for our products are characterized by frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards, all with an underlying pressure to reduce cost and meet stringent reliability and qualification requirements. Our future performance will depend on our successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products that address these challenges. The anticipated or actual introduction of new and enhanced products by us and by our competitors may cause our customers to defer or cancel orders for our existing products. In addition, the introduction of new products by us or our competitors could result, and in the past, has resulted, in a slowdown in demand for our existing products and could result, and in the past, has resulted, in a write-down in the value of inventory. We have both recently and in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products and delays in new product development, and such delays may occur in the future. To the extent customers defer or cancel orders for our products for any reason or we fail to achieve new design wins, our competitive position would be adversely affected and our ability to grow revenue would be impaired. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • unanticipated engineering complexities; 16 Table of Contents • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; and • changing market or competitive product requirements. Furthermore, fast time-to-market with new products can be critical to success in our markets. It is difficult to displace an existing supplier for a particular type of product once a network equipment vendor has chosen a supplier, even if a later-to-market product provides superior performance or cost efficiency. If we are unable to make our new or enhanced products commercially available on a timely basis, we may lose existing and potential customers and our financial results would suffer. The development of new, technologically-advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring frequent innovation, highly-skilled engineering and development personnel and significant capital, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product introductions by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. We also may not be able to develop the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, license these technologies from third parties, or remain competitive in our markets. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and quickly respond to evolving technologies and customer requirements. The communications networks industry is characterized by substantial investment in new technology and the development of diverse and changing technologies and industry standards. For example, new technologies are required to satisfy the emerging standards for 100Gbps, 400 Gbps and higher data transmission in communications networks. Our ability to anticipate and respond to evolving technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and technologies, will be critical factors in our ability to succeed. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to such changes in the future, our competitive position could be adversely affected. In addition, the introduction of new products by other companies embodying new technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards, could render our existing products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or otherwise unmarketable. If our customers do not qualify our products for use, then our results of operations may suffer. Prior to placing volume purchase orders with us, most of our customers require us to obtain their approval—called qualification in our industry—of our new and existing products, and our customers often audit our manufacturing facilities and perform other vendor evaluations during this process. The qualification process involves product sampling and reliability testing and collaboration with our product management and engineering teams in the design and manufacturing stages. If we are unable to qualify our products with customers, then our revenue would be lower than expected and we may not be able to recover the costs associated with the qualification process which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, due to evolving technological changes in our markets, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we have qualified our product or begun volume manufacturing of a qualified product. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty whether our customers will delay or terminate product qualification or the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, but any such delay, cancellation or modification would have a negative effect on our results of operations. In particular, we have developed new technologies and products that we believe are key components in our customers’ systems for 100Gbps data transmission. There are multiple modulation approaches for these systems 17 Table of Contents and not all are likely to be equally successful. While we are shipping certain products for 100Gbps system designs today, many of our products for these systems are currently being qualified for use by our customers. Our ability to successfully qualify and scale capacity for these new technologies and products is important to our ability to grow our business and market presence. If we are unable to qualify and sell any of these products in volume on time, or at all, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We face intense competition which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share. The communications networks industry is highly competitive. Our competitors range from large, international companies offering a wide range of products to smaller companies specializing in niche markets. In addition, we believe that a number of companies have developed or are developing planar lightwave, indium phosphide, or MEMS-based, PIC devices and other products that compete directly with our products. Current and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and manufacturing resources than we possess, and there can be no assurance that our current and future competitors will not be more successful than us in specific product lines or as a whole. Some of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition, technical, financial, and marketing resources, and greater manufacturing capacity, as well as better-established relationships with customers, than we do. Some of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for these products and technologies. Some of our competitors may be able to develop new products more quickly than us and may be able to develop products that are more reliable or which provide more functionality than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have the financial resources on business strategy to offer competitive products at below-market pricing levels that could prevent us from competing effectively and result in a loss of sales or market share or cause us to lower prices for our products. We also face competition from some of our customers who evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. Due to the fact that such customers are not seeking to make a profit directly from the manufacture of these products, they may have the ability to manufacture competitive products at a lower cost than we would charge such customers. As a result, these customers may purchase less of our products and there would be additional pressure to lower our selling prices which, accordingly, would negatively impact our revenue and gross margin. In particular we have developed new technologies and products that we believe are key components in our customers’ systems for 40Gbps and 100Gbps data transmission. The emergence of technologies and products from our competitors and their success in competing against our technologies and products for 40Gbps and 100Gbps data transmission could render our existing products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or otherwise unmarketable. Intense competition in our markets could result in aggressive business tactics by our competitors, including aggressively pricing their products or selling older inventory at a discount. If our current or future competitors utilize aggressive business tactics, including those described above, demand for our products could decline, we could experience delays or cancellations of customer orders, or we could be required to reduce our sales prices. If we fail to retain our key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our success and ability to implement our business strategy depends upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and others, including our technical and operations employees. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our senior management and others, and on the continued contributions of members of our senior management team and key technical and operations personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of services of members of our senior management team or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel could 18 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for highly skilled technical and operations people where we operate is extremely intense, and we continue to face challenges identifying, hiring and retaining qualified personnel in many areas of our business. If we fail to retain our senior management and other key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could suffer. The communications networks industry has long product development cycles requiring us to incur product development costs without assurances of an acceptable investment return. The communications networks industry is highly capital-intensive. Large volumes of equipment and support structures are installed with considerable expenditures of funds and other resources, and long investment return period expectations. At the component supplier level, these cycles create considerable, typically multi-year, gaps between the commencement of new product development and volume purchases. Accordingly, we and our competitors often incur significant research and development and sales and marketing costs for products that, at the earliest, will be purchased by our customers long after much of the cost is incurred and, in some cases, may never be purchased due to changes in industry or customer requirements in the interim. Due to changing industry and customer requirements, we are constantly developing new products, including seeking to further integrate functions on PICs and developing and using new technologies in our products. These development activities can and are expected to necessitate significant investment of capital. Our new products often require a long time to develop because of their complexity and rigorous testing and qualification requirements. Additionally, developing a manufacturing approach with an acceptable cost structure and yield for new products can be expensive and time-consuming. Due to the costs and length of research and development and manufacturing process cycles, we may not recognize revenue from new products until long after such expenditures are incurred, if at all, and our gross margin may decrease if our costs are higher than expected. While we rely on many suppliers, there are a few which, if they stopped, decreased or delayed shipments to us, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain components and materials we have qualified to use in the manufacture of certain of our products. Some of these suppliers could disrupt our business if they stop, decrease or delay shipments or if the components they ship have quality, consistency, or business continuity issues. Some of these components and materials are available only from a sole source, or have been qualified only from a single source, although other sources may exist. For example, we use various types of adhesives that are sourced from various manufacturers, which presently are sole sources for these particular adhesives. Furthermore, there are a limited number of entities from which we could obtain certain other components and materials. We may also face component shortages if we experience increased demand for components beyond what our qualified suppliers can deliver. We have experienced component shortages from certain key suppliers, which has resulted and, if this occurs in the future, may result in an inability to meet customer demand, higher purchasing costs, or both. Although we engage in various actions to mitigate the impact of these shortages, any inability on our part to obtain sufficient quantities of critical components at reasonable costs could adversely affect our ability to meet demand for our products, which could cause our revenue, results of operations, or both to suffer. Our customers generally restrict our ability to change the component parts in our modules without their approval. For more critical components, such as PICs, lasers and photo detectors, any changes may require repeating the entire qualification process. We typically have not entered into long-term or written agreements with our suppliers to guarantee the supply of the key components used in our products, and, therefore, our suppliers could stop supplying materials and equipment at any time or fail to supply adequate quantities of component parts on a timely basis. It is difficult, costly, time consuming and, on short notice, sometimes impossible for us to identify and qualify new component suppliers. The reliance on a sole supplier, single qualified vendor or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery and quality problems, reduced control over product pricing, reliability and performance and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a 19 Table of Contents timely manner. We have in the past had to change suppliers, which has, in some instances, resulted in delays in product development and manufacturing and loss of revenue. Any such delays in the future may limit our ability to respond to changes in customer and market demands. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality, quantities or timeliness of delivery of components that we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our customer orders and our results of operations. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in defending, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to establish and protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We have applied for patent registrations in the U.S. and in other foreign countries, some of which have been issued. In addition, we have registered the trademark “NeoPhotonics” in the U.S. We cannot guarantee that our pending applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, our existing and future patents and trademarks may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary rights or may be held invalid or unenforceable in court. A failure to obtain patents or trademark registrations or a successful challenge to our registrations in the U.S. or other foreign countries may limit our ability to protect the intellectual property rights that these applications and registrations intended to cover. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation, unauthorized use or other infringement of our intellectual property rights. Further, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights from misappropriation or other infringement in foreign countries where we have not applied for patent protections, and where effective patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws may be unavailable, or may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as U.S. law. Particularly, our U.S. patents do not afford any intellectual property protection in China, Japan, Canada or Malaysia, where we have company operations, or in the Russian Federation, where we intend to expand operations. We seek to secure, to the extent possible, comparable intellectual property protections in China and other areas in which we operate. However, while we have issued patents and pending patent applications in China, portions of our intellectual property portfolio are not yet protected by patents in China. Moreover, the level of protection afforded by patent and other laws in countries such as China and Russia may not be comparable to that afforded in the U.S. We attempt to protect our intellectual property, including our trade secrets and know-how, through the use of trade secret and other intellectual property laws, and contractual provisions. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and independent consultants. We also use non-disclosure agreements with other third parties who may have access to our proprietary technologies and information. Such measures, however, provide only limited protection, and there can be no assurance that our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, especially after our employees or those of our third-party contract manufacturers end their employment or engagement, and that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known by competitors or that we will have adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of proprietary information. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or portions of our products, otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property, or may independently develop similar or equivalent trade secrets or know-how. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, or if such intellectual property and proprietary rights are infringed or misappropriated, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. In the future, we may need to take legal actions to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or from otherwise gaining access to our technology. Protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights and determining their validity and scope could result in significant litigation costs and require significant time and attention from our technical and management personnel, which could significantly harm our business. In addition, we may not prevail in such proceedings. An adverse outcome of such proceedings may reduce our competitive advantage or otherwise harm our financial condition and our business. 20 Table of Contents We may be involved in intellectual property disputes in the future, which could divert management’s attention, cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling or using the challenged technology. Participants in the markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including our competitors. In addition, from time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims can be time consuming, divert management’s attention and resources and may cause us to incur significant expenses. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. While we believe that our products do not infringe in any material respect upon intellectual property rights of other parties and/or meritorious defense would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, we cannot be certain that our products would not be found infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property claims against us could invalidate our proprietary rights and force us to do one or more of the following: • obtain from a third party claiming infringement a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • stop manufacturing, selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • pay substantial monetary damages; or • expend significant resources to redesign the products that use the technology and to develop non-infringing technology. Any of these actions could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue and could result in losses over an extended period of time. On January 5, 2010, Finisar Corporation, or Finisar, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California against Source Photonics, Inc., MRV Communications, Inc., Oplink Communications, Inc. and us, or collectively, the co-defendants. In the complaint, Finisar alleged infringement of certain of its U.S. patents arising from the co-defendants’ respective manufacture, importation, use, sale of or offer to sell certain optical transceiver products in the U.S. Finisar sought to recover unspecified damages, up to treble the amount of actual damages, together with attorneys’ fees, interest and costs. Finisar alleged that at least some of the patents asserted are a part of certain digital diagnostic standards for optoelectronics transceivers and, therefore, are being utilized in such digital diagnostic standards. On March 23, 2010, we filed an answer to the complaint and counterclaims, asserting two claims of patent infringement and additional claims asserting that Finisar has violated state and federal competition laws and violated its obligations to license on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. On May 5, 2010, the court dismissed without prejudice all co-defendants (including us) except Source Photonics, Inc., on grounds that such claims should have been asserted in four separate lawsuits, one against each co-defendant. This dismissal without prejudice does not prevent Finisar from bringing a new similar lawsuit against us. Since that time, we and Finisar entered into agreements that tolled our respective claims until Finisar resolved its litigation against certain other co-defendants, which litigation subsequently was resolved (commencing the tolling period with us). In May 3, 2012, we and Finisar agreed to further toll our respective claims until the refiling of certain of the previously asserted claims from this dispute. As a result, Finisar is permitted to bring a new lawsuit against us if it chooses to do so, and we may bring new claims against Finisar upon seven days written notice prior to filing such claims. If we are unsuccessful in our defense of the Finisar patent infringement claims, a license to use the allegedly infringing technology may not be available to us at all, and if it is, it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms and therefore may limit or preclude us from competing in the market for optical transceivers in the U.S., which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and otherwise materially harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Although we believe that we would have meritorious defenses to the infringement allegations and intend to defend any new similar lawsuit vigorously, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our defense. Even if we are successful, we may incur substantial legal fees and other costs in defending the lawsuit. Further, a new lawsuit, if brought by either party, would be likely to divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, which could harm our business. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others which are necessary to operate our business, and to protect their intellectual property, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. From time to time we may choose to or be required to license technology or intellectual property from third parties in connection with the development of our products. We cannot assure you that third-party licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. The inability to obtain a necessary third-party license required for our product offerings or to develop new products and product enhancements could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards, or of greater cost, either of which could adversely affect our business. If we are not able to obtain licenses from third parties, if necessary, then we may also be subject to litigation to defend against infringement claims from these third parties. Our competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Also, we typically enter into confidentiality agreements with such third parties in which we agree to protect and maintain their proprietary and confidential information, including requiring our employees to enter into agreements protecting such information. There can be no assurance that the confidentiality agreements will not be breached by any of our employees or that such third parties will not make claims that their proprietary information has been disclosed. Any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property could also include our customers using our products, which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expenses to us. In any potential dispute involving our patents or other intellectual property, our customers could also become the target of litigation. Because we often indemnify our customers for intellectual property claims made against them for products incorporating our technology, any claims against our customers could trigger indemnification obligations in some of our supply agreements, which could result in substantial expenses such as increased legal expenses, damages for past infringement or royalties for future use. While we have not incurred any indemnification expenses to date, any future indemnity claim could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and result in substantial costs to us. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement. If we fail to adequately manage our long-term growth and expansion requirements, our business and financial results will suffer. In recent years, we have experienced significant growth through, among other things, internal expansion programs, product development and acquisitions of other businesses and products. Our business has expanded to numerous locations, both foreign and domestic, and as a result become more complex, more demanding of management’s attention and subject to more subject to new laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with new laws and regulations related to the expansion of our business, our business could suffer. We expect to continue to grow, which could require us to expand our manufacturing operations, including hiring new personnel, purchasing additional equipment, leasing or purchasing additional facilities, developing the management infrastructure and developing our suppliers to manage any such expansion. If we fail to secure these expansion requirements or manage our future growth effectively, our business could suffer. 22 Table of Contents We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions. Acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we have pursued and intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, products, services or technologies that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our existing markets or allow us to enter new markets. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, in October 2011, we completed the acquisition of Santur, a designer and manufacturer of InP-based PIC products, and in January 2013 we signed a definitive agreement to acquire the optical semiconductor business unit of LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. (OCU). If we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in managing and integrating different cultures with respect to our international acquisitions; • difficulties in realizing our expectations for the financial performance of the target company; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the incurrence of debt to provide capital for any cash-based acquisitions; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • risks of entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the target company’s business; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the target company’s products; • exposure to environmental liabilities that have not yet been discovered associated with acquired businesses’ facilities; • expenses, distractions and actual or threatened claims or litigation resulting from acquisitions, whether or not they are completed; • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset increased expenses association with any acquisition; • in the event of international acquisitions, risks associated with accounting and business practices that are different from applicable U.S. practices and requirements and • dilutive effect on our stock as a result of any equity-based acquisitions. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments which have occurred in the past and which, were they to occur in the future, could harm our financial results. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. 23 Table of Contents Failure to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Santur and our anticipated acquisition of OCU may affect our future results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our acquisition of Santur and OCU, we have recently integrated Santur’s commercial operations and personnel into our existing infrastructure and intend to similarly integrate OCU’s business. If there are unexpected difficulties in our integration of these, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected. The anticipated benefits of the acquisition could be materially reduced by a number of factors, including the following: • the future revenue and gross margins of the acquired products may be materially different from those we originally anticipated; • we could incur material unanticipated expenses; • the Santur or OCU products may not achieve the performance levels or specifications required by our customers; • we could have difficulty integrating and managing Santur’s and OCU’s international business locations in places where we did not previously have a significant or, in some cases, any business presence, including Malaysia, Canada and Japan; • claims or lawsuits may arise from the acquisition transaction or from Santur’s or OCU’s previous business operations; • we may experience difficulties in managing inventory and other operational processes in Santur’s and OCU’s former facilities that we acquire or lease as a result of the acquisitions; • we may experience difficulties in implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting as part of our integration of Santur and OCU, each of which was historically not subject as a stand-alone entity to the internal control requirements of a U.S. public company; • potential growth, expected financial results, perceived synergies and anticipated opportunities may not be realized through the ongoing integration of our Santur’s and OCU’s businesses; • we may face competition from existing customers as well as new competitors for legacy Santur or OCU products; • we could have difficulty implementing and maintaining financial reporting requirements for OCU’s previous business operations, which have not previously been previously audited nor subject to the internal compliance structure of a U.S. public company; • we could have difficulty implementing our existing management, production and accounting software and programs for OCU’s previous business operations; • we could incur costs associated with unknown environmental contamination of the real estate to be acquired from OCU; and • we could incur costs associated with new export or compliance issues associated with OCU products. The occurrence of any or all of these events may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other catastrophic events could harm our operations and our financial results. Our worldwide operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. In addition, the combined effects of these natural disasters have created significant uncertainty, and it is possible that these events could result in reduced end user demand due to a specific location and the global economy; a slowdown of business or 24 Table of Contents inability to manufacture products by our customers or others in the industry that are located in Thailand and/or Japan; a disruption to the global supply chain for products manufactured in Thailand and/or Japan that are included in the products either by us or by our customers; a disruption to manufacturing resulting from power shortages or other rationing of inputs to production; an increase in the cost of products that we purchase due to reduced supply; and other unforeseen impacts as a result of the uncertainty in Thailand and Japan. Similarly, our worldwide operations could be subject to secondary effects of natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. In addition, our corporate headquarters and wafer fabrication facility in Silicon Valley, California and our Tokyo, Japan facility are located near major earthquake fault lines, and our manufacturing facilities are located in Shenzhen, China, an area that is susceptible to typhoons. Further, a terrorist attack, including one aimed at energy or communications infrastructure suppliers, could hinder or delay the development and sale of our products. In the event that an earthquake, tsunami, typhoon, terrorist attack or other natural or man-made catastrophe were to destroy any part of our facilities, destroy or disrupt vital infrastructure systems or interrupt our operations or the facilities or operations of our suppliers or customers for any extended period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We are not insured against many natural disasters, including earthquakes. Rapidly changing standards and regulations could make our products obsolete, which would cause our revenue and results of operations to suffer. We design our products to conform to regulations established by governments and to standards set by industry standards bodies worldwide, such as The American National Standards Institute, the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, the International Telecommunications Union and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Various industry organizations are currently considering whether and to what extent to create standards for elements used in 100Gbps systems. Because certain of our products are designed to conform to current specific industry standards, if competing or new standards emerge that are preferred by our customers, we would have to make significant expenditures to develop new products. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our products are not compatible, or the industry groups adopt standards or governments issue regulations with which our products are not compatible, our existing products would become less desirable to our customers and our revenue and results of operations would suffer. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits from our planned expansion in the Russian Federation may affect our future results of operations and financial condition. In connection with our raising capital in an April 2012 private placement of common stock, we have established a wholly-owned subsidiary and company operations in the Russian Federation. The establishment of successful operations in the Russian Federation will require significant capital expenditure in a short amount of time, particularly in 2013 and 2014, and will be in part dependent on the cooperation of the Russian government and other third parties. If there are delays in our efforts to establish operations in the Russian Federation, the anticipated benefits of our Russian expansion may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected. The anticipated benefits of our Russian expansion could be materially reduced by a number of factors, including the following: • the future revenue and gross margins of products produced in the Russian Federation may be materially different from those we originally anticipated; • we could incur material unanticipated expenses; and • we could have difficulty managing a business in the Russian Federation, where we did not previously have a material business presence. 25 Table of Contents In addition, in connection with the private placement transaction, we entered into a rights agreement with the sponsoring investor. Pursuant to the rights agreement, we have agreed to use at least $30 million of the proceeds from the private placement to establish a wholly-owned subsidiary and facility in the Russian Federation for the production of certain of our products. Pursuant to the rights agreement, failure to perform certain performance covenants set forth therein by July 31, 2014 (subject to extension to March 31, 2015, as set forth therein), will result in an obligation to pay damages to the investor in the amount of $5.0 million. In recent years the Russian Federation has undergone substantial political, economic and social change. The business, legal and regulatory infrastructure in the Russian Federation is less well-developed that would generally exist in a more mature free market economy. In addition, the tax, currency and customs legislation within the Russian Federation is subject to varying interpretations and changes, which can occur frequently. The future economic direction of the Russian Federation remains largely dependent upon the effectiveness of economic, financial and monetary measures undertaken by the government, together with tax, legal, regulatory and political developments. Our failure to manage the risks associated with our planned Russian expansion could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations. The occurrence of any or all of these events may have an adverse effect on our business, and results of operations and financial condition. Potential changes in our effective tax rate could negatively affect our future results. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S., China and other various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our tax rate is affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including our ability to utilize our net operating losses. Increases in our effective tax rate could negatively affect our results of operations. Our future results of operations may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, primarily the Chinese Renminbi (RMB)/U.S. dollar exchange rate. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks. Foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our revenue and our costs and expenses, and hence our results of operations. A substantial portion of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries based in China, whose functional currency is the RMB. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Since July 21, 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged solely to the value of the U.S. dollar. Instead, the RMB is now pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 1.0% each day (which may further widen in the future). This change in policy has resulted in approximately 31% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2012. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which may result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. In the long term, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar, depending upon the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency exchange rates are subject to fluctuation and may cause us to recognize transaction gains and losses in our statements of operations. To the extent that transactions by our subsidiaries in China are denominated in currencies other than the RMB, we bear the risk that fluctuations in the exchange rates of the RMB in relation to other currencies could decrease our revenue or increase our costs and expenses, therefore having an adverse effect on our future results of operations. 26 Table of Contents While we generate a significant portion of our revenue in RMB, conversely, a majority of our operating expenses are in U.S. dollars. Therefore, any depreciation in the RMB against the U.S. dollar would adversely impact our revenue upon translation to U.S. dollars, but the positive impact on operating expenses would be less. This would result in an overall adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2012, a 10% depreciation in RMB against the U.S. dollar would have resulted in an $9.9 million decrease in our revenue and a $0.7 million increase in our net loss for the period. Comparatively, for the year ended December 31, 2011, a 10% depreciation in RMB against the U.S. dollar would have resulted in a $11.2 million decrease in our revenue and a $0.7 million decrease in our net loss for the period. In 2013, we expect to transact in currencies that have had historical volatility, including Japanese Yen and Russian Rubles. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of these currencies may cause us to recognize additional transaction gains or losses which could impact our results of operations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure. In addition, our currency exchange variations may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. We face a variety of risks associated with international sales and operations, which if not adequately managed could adversely affect our business and financial results. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue from international sales in various markets. In addition, a major portion of our operations is based in Shenzhen, China as well as our having additional operations in Japan, Canada and a contract manufacturing relationship in Malaysia. We also plan to establish a subsidiary and operations in the Russian Federation. Our international revenue and operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in staffing, managing and supporting operations in more than one country; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • fewer legal protections for intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; • foreign and U.S. taxation issues and international trade barriers; • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; • difficulties in obtaining any necessary governmental authorizations for the export of our products to certain foreign jurisdictions; • fluctuations in foreign economies; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies and interest rates; • trade and travel restrictions; • outbreaks of avian flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, H1N1 swine flu or other contagious disease; • domestic and international economic or political changes, hostilities and other disruptions in regions where we currently operate or may operate in the future; • difficulties and increased expenses in complying with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, regulations and trade standards, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • different and changing legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. 27 Table of Contents Negative developments in any of these areas in China or other countries could result in a reduction in demand for our products, the cancellation or delay of orders already placed, difficulties in producing and delivering our products, threats to our intellectual property, difficulty in collecting receivables, and a higher cost of doing business. In addition, although we maintain an anti-corruption compliance program throughout our company, violations of our compliance program may result in criminal or civil sanctions, including material monetary fines, penalties and other costs against us or our employees, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. In making an investment decision relating to our common stock, you should evaluate our business in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies operating on a global platform, particularly companies in the rapidly changing communications networks industry. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. We are subject to export and import control laws, trade regulations and other trade requirements that limit which products we sell and where and to whom we sell our products, especially laser-dependent products (including those we recently acquired in the Santur acquisition). In some cases, it is possible that export licenses would be required from U.S. government agencies for some of our products in accordance with various statutory authorities, including but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Act of 1979, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917 and the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 and various country-specific trade sanctions legislation. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technologies and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products. We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export and import licenses. Failure to comply with these and similar laws on a timely basis, or at all, or any limitation on our ability to export or sell our products or to obtain any required licenses would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our products or changes in export and import laws and implementing regulations may create delays in the introduction of new products in international markets, prevent our customers from deploying our products internationally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. In such event, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As disclosed in Item 9A of this report, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the reconciliation of inventory count results to the Company’s accounting records as of December 31, 2012 primarily in our Fremont, California facility which was a former facility of Santur (a company we acquired in 2011). A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control are 28 Table of Contents discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. For more information see “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these elements may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. Beginning with the year ended December 31, 2011, we are required to comply with the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we may experience difficulties in implementing effective internal controls over financial reporting as part of our integration of Santur and OCU. Santur and OCU have historically been private companies and not subject as stand-alone entities to the internal control requirements of a U.S. public company. We could also experience unanticipated additional operating costs in implementing and managing effective internal controls over financing reporting at the former Santur and OCU facilities and operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. If a material misstatement occurs in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, we may need to restate our financial results and the price of our common stock may decline. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation, our business and operating results may be harmed and we may fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Any failure of our internal controls could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that is now applicable to us under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Covenants in our credit facilities may limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities and competitive developments and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. We have lending arrangements with several financial institutions, including a loan and security agreement with Comerica Bank in the U.S., and our subsidiaries in China have line of credit arrangements. Our U.S. loan and security agreement requires us to maintain certain financial covenants, including a liquidity ratio, and restricts our ability to take certain actions such as incurring additional debt, paying dividends, or engaging in certain transactions like mergers and acquisitions, investments and asset sales. These restrictions may limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic or industry conditions. In addition, our obligations under our U.S. loan and security agreement with Comerica Bank are secured by substantially all of our U.S. assets other than intellectual property assets, which limits our ability to provide collateral for additional financing. A breach of any of these covenants, or a failure to pay interest or indebtedness when due under any of our credit facilities, could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes, which could adversely affect our future financial results. As of December 31, 2012, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards for U.S. federal and state tax purposes of $205.3 million and $144.9 million, respectively. As these net operating losses have not been utilized, a portion has begun to expire in the current year. The utilization of the NOL and tax credit carryforwards are subject to a substantial limitation imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and similar state provisions. We recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, for the NOL carryforwards currently available after considering the existing Section 382 limitation. If we incur an additional limitation under Section 382, then the NOL carryforwards, as disclosed, could be reduced by the impact of any future limitation that would result in existing NOL carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards expiring unutilized. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We became a public reporting company in February 2011. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, imposes additional requirements on public companies, including specific corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit and compensation committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of conduct. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantial additional costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are subject to government regulations that could adversely impact our business. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has jurisdiction over the entire U.S. telecommunications industry and, as a result, our products and our U.S. customers are subject to FCC rules and regulations. Current and future FCC regulations affecting communications services, our products or our customers’ businesses could negatively affect our business. In addition, international regulatory standards could impair our ability to develop products for international customers in the future. Delays caused by our compliance with regulatory requirements could result in postponements or cancellations of product orders. Further, we may not be successful in obtaining or maintaining any regulatory approvals that may, in the future, be required to operate our business. Any failure to obtain such approvals could harm our business and results of operations. We may utilize conflict minerals in our production or rely on suppliers who utilize conflict minerals in their production, and the use of such conflict minerals may negatively impact our results of operations. In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted its final rule to implement Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding reporting obligations for the use of conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, and beginning on January 1, 2013, we became subject to these reporting obligations. In connection with these requirements, we have been contacted by several customers and suppliers regarding the new conflict mineral rules and reporting obligations and are working with these customers and suppliers to implement any 30 Table of Contents necessary or requested compliance programs. As a result of these new rules, our results in operations may suffer for a variety of reasons, including: • difficulty in obtaining supplies that are conflict-free; • shipping delays or the cancellation of orders for our products; • costs associated with the implementation of the conflict minerals reporting obligations; and • reputational damage in the event that we determine our products do incorporate conflict minerals or cannot be verified as not incorporating conflict minerals. In some instances, we rely on third-party sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future revenue. Although we primarily sell our products through direct sales to systems vendors, we also sell our products to some of our customers through third-party sales representatives. Many of our third-party sales representatives also market and sell competing products from our competitors. Our third-party sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time, or with short notice. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional third-party sales representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If our current third-party sales representatives fail to perform as expected, our revenue and results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which could subject us to liabilities, increase our costs, or restrict our business or operations in the future. Our manufacturing operations and our products are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate or sell our products. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination, employee health and safety, and the use of hazardous materials in, and the recycling of, our products. Our failure to comply with present and future environmental, health or safety requirements, or the identification of contamination, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, monetary fines, civil or criminal penalties, or curtailment of operations. In addition, the enactment of more stringent laws and regulations, or other unanticipated events could restrict our ability to expand our facilities, require us to install costly pollution control equipment or incur other additional expenses, or require us to modify our manufacturing processes or the contents of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, increasing efforts to control emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHG, may also impact us. Additional climate change or GHG control requirements are under consideration at the federal level in the U.S. and in China. Additional restrictions, limits, taxes, or other controls on GHG emissions could increase our operating costs and, while it is not possible to estimate the specific impact any final GHG regulations will have on our operations, there can be no assurance that these measures will not have significant additional impact on us. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, and cash flows from our operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. We operate in an industry, however, that makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from 31 Table of Contents operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, including to: • invest in our research and development efforts, including by hiring additional technical and other personnel; • expand our operating or manufacturing infrastructure; • acquire complementary businesses, products, services or technologies; or • otherwise pursue our strategic plans and respond to competitive pressures. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders, including those acquiring shares in our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. Risks related to our operations in China Our business operations conducted in China are critical to our success. A total of $121.2 million, or 49%, of our revenue in 2012 was recognized from customers for whom we shipped products to a location in China. Additionally, a substantial portion of our property, plant and equipment, 59% as of December 31, 2012, is located in China. We expect to make further investments in China in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are to a significant degree subject to economic, political, legal, and social events and developments in China. Adverse changes in economic and political policies in China, or Chinese laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on business conditions and the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. In November 2012 China’s Communist Party announced the selection of a new Politburo Standing Committee, which controls government operations in China, and this recent change in leadership may affect Chinese laws or regulations in a manner that would adversely affect our business as set forth in this risk factor. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Despite reforms, the government continues to exercise significant control over China’s economic growth by way of the allocation of resources, control over foreign currency-denominated obligations and monetary policy and provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Moreover, the laws, regulations and legal requirements in China, including the laws that apply to foreign-invested enterprises are relatively new and are subject to frequent changes. The interpretation and enforcement of such laws is uncertain. Any adverse changes to these laws, regulations and legal requirements, including tax laws, or their interpretation or enforcement, or the creation of new laws or regulations relating to our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, while China’s economy has experienced rapid growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions, among various economic sectors and over time. China has also in the past and may in the future experience economic downturns due to, for example, government austerity measures, changes in government policies relating to capital spending, limitations placed on the ability of commercial banks to make loans, reduced levels of exports and international trade, inflation, lack of financial liquidity, restrictions on the flow of capital and foreign exchange, stock market volatility and global economic conditions. Any of these developments could contribute to a decline in business and consumer spending in addition to other adverse market conditions, which could adversely affect our business. 32 Table of Contents Our cost advantage from having our manufacturing and part of our research and development in China may diminish over time due to increasing labor costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The labor market in China, particularly in the manufacturing-heavy Southeast region of China where our manufacturing facilities are located, has experienced higher costs due to increased wages. We were required to pay additional employee benefits taxes beginning in late 2010 and were subject to increases in the minimum wage for hourly workers in 2011 and 2012. We will be subject to an increase in the minimum wage in 2013, and expect that we will be required to increase wages and/or be subject to further increase in personnel costs on taxes in the future due to market conditions and/or government mandates. If labor costs in China continue to increase, our gross margins and profit margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, our competitive advantage against competitors with manufacturing in traditionally higher cost countries would be diminished. The termination, expiration or unavailability of our preferential income tax treatment in China may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Prior to January 1, 2008, entities established in China were generally subject to a 30% state and 3% local enterprise income tax rate. In accordance with the China Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises, effective through December 31, 2007, our subsidiaries in China enjoyed preferential income tax rates. Effective January 1, 2008, the China Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT law, imposes a single uniform income tax rate of 25% on all Chinese enterprises, including foreign-invested enterprises, and eliminates or modifies most of the tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatment available under the previous tax laws and regulations. As a result, our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the uniform income tax rate of 25% unless we are able to qualify for preferential status. Currently, we have qualified for a preferential 15% tax rate that is available for new and high technology enterprises. The preferential rate applied to 2012, 2011 and 2010. We realized benefits from this 10% reduction in tax rate of $0.9 million, $0.4 million and $1.7 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The preferential rate has been approved to remain at 15% for 2013 and 2014. In order to retain the preferential rate, we must meet certain operating conditions, satisfy certain product requirements, meet certain headcount requirements and maintain certain levels of research expenditures. The preferential tax rate that we enjoy could be modified or discontinued altogether at any time, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries in China may be subject to restrictions on dividend payments, on making other payments to us or any other affiliated company, and on borrowing or allocating tax losses among our subsidiaries. Current Chinese regulations permit our subsidiaries in China to pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations, which are different than U.S. accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our subsidiaries in China are required to set aside at least 10% of their respective accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund their statutory common reserves until such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital, as well as to allocate a discretional portion of their after-tax profits to their staff welfare and bonus fund. As of December 31, 2012, our Chinese subsidiaries’ common reserves had not reached this threshold and, accordingly, these entities are required to continue funding such reserves with accumulated net profits. The statutory common reserves are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of liquidation. In addition, current Chinese regulations prohibit inter-company borrowings or allocation of tax losses among subsidiaries in China. Further, if our subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Accordingly, we may not be able to move our capital easily, which could harm our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue and cash effectively. Because a substantial portion of our revenue is denominated in RMB, any restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any business activities we may have outside China or 33 Table of Contents to make dividend payments in U.S. dollars. Under relevant Chinese rules and regulations, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans, without the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Currently, our subsidiaries in China may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including the payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE. Although Chinese government regulations now allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions remain. For example, foreign exchange transactions under our primary Chinese subsidiary’s capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, remain subject to significant foreign exchange controls and the approval of SAFE. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries in China to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. We cannot be certain that Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. If such restrictions are imposed, our ability to adjust our capital structure or engage in foreign exchange transactions may be limited. In August 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by foreign-invested enterprises or FIE of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within China unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE. The use of such RMB may not be changed without approval from SAFE. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. As a result of Circular 142, our subsidiaries in China may not be able to convert our capital contributions to them into RMB for equity investments or acquisitions in China. Uncertainties with respect to China’s legal system could adversely affect the legal protection available to us. Our operations in China are governed by Chinese laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. China’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a legal system where decided legal cases have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully-integrated legal system, and recently-enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, including regional variations within China. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection under contracts or law. However, since Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contract terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we would receive compared to more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our distributors, business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, protections of intellectual property rights and confidentiality in China may not be as effective as in the U.S. or other countries or regions with more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the legal system in China is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. All the uncertainties described above could limit the legal protections available to us and could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. 34 Table of Contents Chinese regulations relating to offshore investment activities by Chinese residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. If our stockholders who are Chinese residents, or our Chinese employees who are granted or exercise stock options, fail to make any required registrations or filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under Chinese laws. Chinese foreign exchange regulations require Chinese residents and corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our stockholders who are Chinese residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Pursuant to these foreign exchange regulations, Chinese residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any Chinese resident who is a direct or indirect stockholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. If any Chinese stockholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, subsidiaries in China of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their subsidiaries in China. Moreover, failure to comply with the various foreign exchange registration requirements described above could result in liability under Chinese laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our stockholders who are Chinese residents have made or obtained, or will make or obtain, any applicable registrations or approvals required by these foreign exchange regulations. The failure or inability of our stockholders in China to comply with the required registration procedures may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our Chinese subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans. Moreover, because of the uncertainties in the interpretation and implementation of these foreign exchange regulations, we cannot predict how they will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a domestic company in China, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by these foreign exchange regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, Chinese residents who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. We have completed the process of registering our stock option and appreciation plans with SAFE. On February 20, 2012, SAFE issued the Circular on Relevant Issues concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for Individuals in PRC Participating in Equity Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Companies, or Circular 7, which provides detailed procedures for conducting foreign exchange matters related to domestic individuals’ participation in the equity incentive plans of overseas listed companies and supersedes the Stock Option Rule in its entirety. If we or our optionees in China fail to comply with the applicable regulations, we or our optionees in China may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Several of our employees in China have exercised their stock options prior to our becoming an overseas publicly-listed company. Since there is not yet a clear regulation on how and whether Chinese employees can exercise their stock options granted by overseas private companies, it is unclear whether such exercises were permitted by Chinese laws and it is uncertain how SAFE or other government authorities 35 Table of Contents will interpret or administer such regulations. Therefore, we cannot predict how such exercises will affect our business or operations. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax in China on behalf of our employees who are subject to individual income tax in China arising from the exercise of stock options. If we fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable Chinese regulations, we may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties and may become subject to liability under Chinese laws. The State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, our Chinese employees (which could include both employees in China and expatriate employees subject to individual income tax in China) who exercise stock options will be subject to individual income tax in China. Our subsidiaries in China have obligations to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. However, since there was not yet a clear regulation on how and whether Chinese employees could exercise stock options granted by overseas private companies and how Chinese employers shall withhold and pay individual taxes, the relevant tax authority verbally advised us that due to the difficulty in determining the fair market value of our shares as a private company, we did not need to withhold and pay the individual income tax for the exercises until after we completed our initial public offering in February 2011. Thus, we have not withheld or paid the individual income tax for the option exercises through the date of our initial public offering. However, we cannot assure you that the Chinese tax authorities will not act otherwise and request us to pay the individual income tax immediately and impose sanctions on us. If the Chinese government determines that we failed to obtain approvals of, or registrations with, the requisite Chinese regulatory authority with respect to our current and past import and export of technologies, we could be subject to sanctions, which could adversely affect our business. China imposes controls on technology import and export. The term “technology import and export” is broadly defined to include, without limitation, the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology to or from China requires either approval by, or registration with, the relevant Chinese governmental authorities. If we are found to be, or to have been, in violation of Chinese laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning, levying fines, restricting us from benefiting from these technologies inside or outside of China, confiscating our earnings generated from the import or export of such technology or even restricting our future export and import of any technology. If the Chinese government determines that our past import and export of technology were inconsistent with, or insufficient for, the proper operation of our business, we could be subject to similar sanctions. Any of these or similar sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may adversely affect our business and result of operations. China regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to China entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds we received from our initial public offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our China subsidiaries. From time to time, we may make loans or additional capital contributions to our China subsidiaries. Any loans to our China subsidiaries are subject to China regulations and approvals. For example, any loans to our China subsidiaries to finance their activities cannot exceed statutory limits, must be registered with SAFE, or its local counterpart, and must be approved by the relevant government authorities. Any capital contributions to our 36 Table of Contents China subsidiaries must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce of China or its local counterpart. In addition, under Circular 142, our China subsidiaries, as FIEs, may not be able to convert our capital contributions to them into RMB for equity investments or acquisitions in China. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to our future loans or capital contributions to our China subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our China subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to fund and expand our business. Dividends paid to us by our Chinese subsidiaries may be subject to Chinese withholding tax. The EIT Law and the implementation regulations provide that a 10% withholding tax may apply to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within China and in the absence of any tax treaty that may reduce such withholding tax rate. The comprehensive Double Taxation Arrangement between China and Hong Kong generally reduces the withholding tax on dividends paid from a Chinese company to a Hong Kong company to 5%. Dividends paid to us by our Chinese subsidiaries will be subject to Chinese withholding tax if, as expected, we are considered a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If dividends from our Chinese subsidiaries are subject to Chinese withholding tax, our financial condition may be adversely impacted to the extent of such tax. Our worldwide income may be subject to Chinese tax under the EIT Law. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax on their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the State Council, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. If we are deemed to be a resident enterprise for Chinese tax purposes, we will be subject to Chinese tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income (loss), however, dividends paid to us by our Chinese subsidiaries may not be subject to withholding if we are deemed to be a resident enterprise. Dividends payable by us to our investors and gains on the sale of our common stock by our foreign investors may be subject to tax under Chinese law. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, a 10% withholding tax is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises.” Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of common stock by such investors is also subject to a 10% withholding tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China. If we are determined to be a “resident enterprise,” dividends and other income we pay on our common stock, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our common stock, would be treated as income derived from sources within China. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold tax from dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if a gain realized on the transfer of our common stock is subject to withholding, the value of your investment in our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Our contractual arrangements with our subsidiaries in China may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities, and a finding that our subsidiaries in China owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of our stockholders’ investment. Under the applicable laws and regulations in China, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the Chinese tax authorities. We would be subject to adverse tax consequences if the Chinese tax authorities were to determine that the contracts with or between our subsidiaries 37 Table of Contents were not executed on an arm’s length basis, and as a result the Chinese tax authorities could require that our Chinese subsidiaries adjust their taxable income upward for Chinese tax purposes. Such an adjustment could adversely affect us by increasing our tax expenses. Because a substantial portion of our business is located in China, we may have difficulty maintaining adequate management, legal and financial controls, which we are required to do in order to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and securities laws, and which could cause a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements, the trading price of our common stock and our business. Chinese companies have historically not adopted a western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, which includes strong corporate governance, internal controls and computer, financial and other control systems. Most of our middle and top management staff in China are not educated and trained in the western system, and we may have difficulty hiring new employees in China with experience and expertise relating to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and U.S. public-company reporting requirements. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in maintaining management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet U.S. public-company reporting requirements. We may, in turn, experience difficulties in maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This may result in material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any such material weaknesses or lack of compliance with SEC rules and regulations could result in restatements of our historical consolidated financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock, adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets and our ability to recruit personnel, lead to the delisting of our securities from the stock exchange on which they are traded. This could lead to litigation claims, thereby diverting management’s attention and resources, and which may lead to the payment of damages to the extent such claims are not resolved in our favor, lead to regulatory proceedings, which may result in sanctions, monetary or otherwise, and have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. See also the risk factor “If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.” The turnover of direct labor in manufacturing industries in China is high, which could adversely affect our production, shipments, and results of operations. Employee turnover of direct labor in the manufacturing sector in China is high and retention of such personnel is a challenge to companies located in or with operations in China. Although direct labor cost does not represent a high proportion of our overall manufacturing costs, direct labor is required for the manufacture of our products. If our direct labor turnover rates are higher than we expect, or we otherwise fail to adequately manage our direct labor turnover rates, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our subsidiaries in China are subject to Chinese labor laws and regulations. Recently enacted Chinese labor laws may increase our operating costs in China, which could adversely affect our financial results. China Labor Contract Law, effective January 1, 2008, together with its implementing rules, effective September 18, 2008, provides more protection to Chinese employees. Previously, an employer had discretionary power in deciding the probation period, not to exceed nine months. Additionally, the employment contract could only be terminated for cause. Under the new rules, the probation period varies depending on contract terms and the employment contract can only be terminated during the probation period for cause upon three days’ notice. Additionally, an employer may not be able to terminate a contract during the probation period on the grounds of a material change of circumstances or a mass layoff. The new law also has specific provisions on conditions when an employer has to sign an employment contract with open-ended terms. If an employer fails to enter into an open-ended contract in certain circumstances, the employer must pay the employee twice their monthly wage 38 Table of Contents beginning from the time the employer should have executed an open-ended contract. Additionally an employer must pay severance for nearly all terminations, including when an employer decides not to renew a fixed-term contract. On January 1, 2008, the Regulations on Paid Annual Leaves of Staff and Workers also took effect, followed by its implementing measures effective September 18, 2008. These regulations provide that employees who have worked consecutively for one year or more are entitled to paid annual leave. An employer must guarantee that employees receive the same wage income during the annual leave period as that for the normal working period. Where an employer cannot arrange annual leave for an employee due to production needs, upon agreement with the employee, the employer must pay daily wages equal to 300% of the employee’s daily salary for each day of annual leave forfeited by such employee. The Shenzhen municipal government, effective December 2010, issued a measure to require all government agencies, public institutions, and enterprises in Shenzhen to pay a monthly housing fund. The housing fund is designed to enhance the welfare and increase the funds available to Shenzhen employees when buying, building, renovating, or overhauling owner-occupied houses. Employee and employers are required to make equal contributions to the housing fund, which can range between 5% and 20% of the employees’ average salary of the most recent year and we commenced making these contributions in the fourth quarter of 2010. From time to time, the Chinese government has implemented requirements to increase the minimum wage for employees in China. These requirements have resulted in the past, and may result in the future, in higher employee costs for our personnel in China. For example, the minimum wage in Shenzhen increased by 20% in April 2011 and 14% in February 2012. We were required to increase wages to comply with these requirements and it may be necessary for us to increase wages more than the minimum wage adjustment requires due to market conditions or additional government mandates. If labor costs in China continue to increase, our gross margins, profit margins and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, our competitive advantage against competitors with personnel costs or manufacturing in traditionally higher cost countries may be diminished. These newly introduced laws and regulations may materially increase the costs of our operations in China. Adoption of international labor standards may increase our direct labor costs. International standards of corporate social responsibility include strict requirements on labor work practices and overtime. As global service providers and their network equipment vendors adopt these standards, we have in the past incurred and may be required in the future to incur additional direct labor costs associated with our compliance with these standards. If any of our subsidiaries in China becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation procedures, we may lose the ability to use its assets. Because a substantial portion of our business and revenue are derived from China, if any of our subsidiaries in China goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our operations in China. Any delay, interruption or cessation of all or a part of our operations in China would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and otherwise adversely affect our business. We may be exposed to liabilities under the FCPA and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act of 1977, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, 39 Table of Contents agreements with third parties and we make the majority of our sales in China. China also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, even though they may not always be subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or Chinese anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Risks related to ownership of our common stock Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to numerous factors, including: • fluctuations in demand for our products; • the timing, size and product mix of sales of our products; • changes in our pricing and sales policies or the pricing and sales policies of our competitors; • our ability to design, manufacture and deliver products to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner and that meet customer requirements; • quality control or yield problems in our manufacturing operations; • our ability to timely obtain adequate quantities of the components used in our products; • length and variability of the sales cycles of our products; • unanticipated increases in costs or expenses; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations in the future. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to our internal manufacturing, research and development, sales and general administrative efforts. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. Moreover, our results of operations may not meet our announced guidance or the expectations of research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address these risks. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. The stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, 40 Table of Contents as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, sovereign debt or liquidity issues, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may become the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If research analysts do not publish research about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that research analysts publish about us and our business. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more of the research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors and their affiliates will limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 28, 2013, our executive officers and directors, and entities that are affiliated with them, beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Also, as a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a change in control would benefit our other stockholders. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our loan and security agreement with Comerica Bank restrict our ability to pay dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock that will prevail in the market after our initial public offering will ever exceed the price that you pay. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; 41 Table of Contents • authorizing our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock rights senior to those of common stock; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. In addition, we have been governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law since the completion of our initial public offering. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of substantially all of our stockholders for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 