ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our loan portfolio consists of a high percentage of loans secured by commercial real estate and multi-family real estate. These loans are riskier than loans secured by one- to four-family properties. At December 31, 2011, $472.4 million, or 55.42% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. These loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation and income stream of the borrower’s business. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully maintain and manage our growth. Since December 31, 2007, our assets have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 21.23%, our loan balances have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 23.22% and our deposits have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 25.13%. Our growth has primarily been driven during this period by acquisitions. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market presence, successfully attract core deposits, identify attractive commercial lending opportunities, and identify potential acquisitions and complete such acquisitions. We cannot be certain as to our ability to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities. We may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loans balances, which may adversely impact our efficiency ratio, earnings and shareholder returns. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of their loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not cover losses in our loan portfolio at the date of the financial statements. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses totaled $10.5 million, representing 1.23% of total loans. While we have only been operating for eleven years, we have experienced significant growth in our loan portfolio, particularly our loans secured by commercial real estate. Although we believe we have underwriting standards to manage normal lending risks, and although we had $54.4 million, or 4.47% of total assets consisting of non-performing assets at December 31, 2011, it is difficult to assess the future performance of our loan portfolio due to the relatively recent origination of many of these loans. We can give you no assurance that our non-performing loans will not increase or that our non-performing or delinquent loans will not adversely affect our future performance. 33 Table of Contents In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend primarily on net interest income for our earnings rather than fee income. Net interest income is the most significant component of our operating income. We do not rely on traditional sources of fee income utilized by some community banks, such as fees from sales of insurance, securities or investment advisory products or services. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our net interest income was $39.6 million and $26.4 million, respectively. The amount of our net interest income is influenced by the overall interest rate environment, competition, and the amount of interest-earning assets relative to the amount of interest-bearing liabilities. In the event that one or more of these factors were to result in a decrease in our net interest income, we do not have significant sources of fee income to make up for decreases in net interest income. If Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired, Our Earnings and Stockholders’ Equity Could Decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. We hold the FHLBNY common stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBNY’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLBNY common stock as of December 31, 2011 was $7.5 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLBNY common stock. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBNY, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLBNY common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. 34 Table of Contents Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between the interest we earn on loans and investments and the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. The interest rates on our assets and liabilities respond differently to changes in market interest rates, which means our interest-bearing liabilities may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates change, this “gap” between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that reprice in response to these interest rate changes may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations in market interest rates, which are affected by, among other factors, changes in the following: • inflation rates; • business activity levels; • money supply; and • domestic and foreign financial markets. The value of our investment portfolio and the composition of our deposit base are influenced by prevailing market conditions and interest rates. Our asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate the risk to us from changes in market interest rates, may not prevent changes in interest rates or securities market downturns from reducing deposit outflow or from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition or the value of our investments. Adverse events in New Jersey, where our business is concentrated, could adversely affect our results and future growth. Our business, the location of our branches and the real estate collateralizing our real estate loans are concentrated in New Jersey. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks. The occurrence of an economic downturn in New Jersey, or adverse changes in laws or regulations in New Jersey, could impact the credit quality of our assets, the business of our customers and our ability to expand our business. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing in our market area. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. In addition, the economies of the communities in which we operate are substantially dependent on the growth of the economy in the State of New Jersey. To the extent that economic conditions in New Jersey are unfavorable or do not continue to grow as projected, the economy in our market area would be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market area if they do occur. 35 Table of Contents In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 91.1% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Adverse developments affecting commerce or real estate values in the local economies in our primary market areas could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. Our business customers may not have customer bases that are as diverse as businesses serving regional or national markets. Consequently, any decline in the economy of our market area could have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition. In particular, we may experience increased loan delinquencies, which could result in a higher provision for loan losses and increased charge-offs. Any sustained period of increased non-payment, delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market area could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Like other bank holding companies and financial institutions, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Under these laws, we are required, among other things, to enforce a customer identification program and file currency transaction and suspicious activity reports with the federal government. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to comply with these laws or make required reports. Because we operate our business in the highly urbanized greater Newark/New York City metropolitan area, we may be at greater risk of scrutiny by government regulators for compliance with these laws. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could harm our business and operating results and/or result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Under rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we were required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. In the course of our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, which assessment was conducted during the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 in connection with the preparation of 2011 consolidated audited financial statements and our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting resulting from (i) a failure to document that monitoring controls were in place with respect to outside service organizations, and that (ii) we failed to test the operating effectiveness of such controls as of December 31, 2011. The Company did test the operating effectiveness of its monitoring controls subsequent to December 31, 2011 and found them to be effective. The material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, as described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, as well as any other weaknesses or deficiencies that may exist or hereafter arise or be identified, could harm our business and operating results, and could result in adverse publicity and a loss in investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, and, if such weaknesses are not properly remediated, could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis. As a result of the foregoing our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness in the Company’s internal controls and procedures citing the Company’s failure to document monitoring controls over the use of outside service organizations and to test the operating effectiveness of such controls as of December 31, 2011. The material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing and extent of audit tests applied in the independent public accounting firm’s audit of our 2011 consolidated financial statements. Consequently, our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. Although we believe that we have identified the material weakness, identified in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, of this report, we cannot assure you that additional deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. In addition, we have as of the date of this filing revised our internal control over financial reporting to ensure that the material deficiency noted above does not occur in the future. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 