Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information included in this Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. If any of these risks occur, the value of our common stock could decline. We currently have no product revenues, have incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception, and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenues and have incurred negative cash flow from operations. Until we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our drug candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from the net proceeds of equity or debt offerings we may make, cash on hand, licensing fees and grants. We will need to raise additional money through debt and/or equity offerings in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. If we are not able to raise sufficient additional money, we will have to reduce our research and development activities. We will first reduce research and development activities associated with our preclinical compounds. To the extent necessary, we will then reduce our research and development activities related to some or all of our clinical drugs. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, changes may occur that would consume our existing capital at a faster rate than projected, including but not limited to, the progress of our research and development efforts, the cost and timing of regulatory approvals and the costs of protecting our intellectual property rights. We may seek additional financing to implement and fund other drug candidate development, clinical trial and research and development efforts, including Phase I clinical trials for other new drug candidates, as well as other research and development projects. We will need additional financing to continue to develop our drug candidates, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to complete our planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of our drug candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we may be forced to reduce or discontinue product development or product licensing, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities in order to improve our liquidity to enable us to continue operations. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the sale of our equity securities or securities convertible into our equity securities, which may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. We have generated no revenues to date from product sales. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $63,311,283 and $57,084,613, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2012, and 2011, we had net losses of $6,226,670 and $11,344,950, respectively, partially as a result of expenses incurred through a combination of research and development activities related to the various technologies under our control and expenses supporting those activities. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drug candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future, based on the following considerations: ● continued pre-clinical development and clinical trials for our current and new drug candidates; ● efforts to seek regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; ● implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure; ● licensing in additional technologies to develop; and ● hiring additional personnel. We also expect to continue to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operations and capital expenditures. Until we have the capacity to generate revenues, we are relying upon outside funding resources to fund our cash flow requirements. We have a limited operating history. We are a development-stage company with a limited number of drug candidates. To date, we have not demonstrated an ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our drug candidates. The successful commercialization of our drug candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including, but not limited to: ● conducting pre-clinical and clinical trials; 13 Table of Contents ● participating in regulatory approval processes; ● formulating and manufacturing products; and ● conducting sales and marketing activities. To date, our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, drug candidate research and development and undertaking, through third parties, pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our principal drug candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for assessment of our ability to commercialize drug candidates. We may not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize our drug candidates, and we cannot guarantee how long it will take for FDA to review applications for our drug candidates. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our drug candidates in the U.S. and approvals from the FDA-equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our drug candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of our drug candidates, we must submit to the FDA an NDA demonstrating that the drug candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, and depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot guarantee that any of our drug candidates will ultimately be approved by the FDA, if they will ultimately be reviewed on an expedited or priority basis by the FDA, or if an expedited or priority review will significantly shorten actual FDA review time. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. Two of our drug candidates, Archexin and RX-0047, are antisense oligonucleotide (“ASO”) compounds. To date, although applications have been made by other companies, the FDA has not approved any NDAs for any ASO compounds for cancer treatment. In addition, each of Archexin, RX-0201-nano and RX-0047-nano is of a drug class (Akt inhibitor, in the case of Archexin and RX-0201-nano, and HIF inhibitor, in the case of RX-0047) that has not been approved by the FDA to date, nor have we submitted such NDA. After the clinical trials are completed, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our drug candidates for sale outside the United States. There is no assurance as to the precise scope of our marketing exclusivity afforded under the Orphan Drug Act. Even if we have orphan drug designation for a particular drug indication, we cannot guarantee that another company also holding orphan drug designation will not receive FDA approval for the same indication before we do. If that were to happen, our applications for that indication may not be approved until the competing company’s seven-year period of exclusivity expired. Even if we are the first to obtain FDA approval for an orphan drug indication, there are certain circumstances under which a competing product may be approved for the same indication during our seven-year period of marketing exclusivity, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product. Further, the seven-year marketing exclusivity would not prevent other sponsors from obtaining approval of the same compound for other indications or the use of other types of drugs for the same use as the orphan drug. 14 Table of Contents Our drug candidates are in the stages of clinical trials. Our drug candidates are in various stages of development and require extensive clinical testing, which are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design. Archexin, our oncology drug candidate, recently completed Phase IIa trials for pancreatic cancer. RX-3117, another oncology candidate, completed an exploratory Phase I clinical trial. On August 6, 2012, we released the results that the study demonstrated the oral bioavailability of RX-3117 in humans when delivered orally to patients, and there were no adverse events reported in the study. RX-5902, another drug oncology candidate, may enter Phase I clinical trials in 2013. In November, 2011, we released the results that the Phase IIb clinical study showed Serdaxin did not demonstrate efficacy compared to the placebo group as measured by MADRS. We completed our Phase IIa clinical trial for Zoraxel and are evaluating how to proceed with the Phase IIb study. We are looking for partners who can fund the further development, license the products or cooperate for commercialization. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our current drug candidates will take up to three years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including, but not limited to: ● unforeseen safety issues; ● determination of dosing issues; ● lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; ● change in the standard of care of the indication being studied ● reliance on third party suppliers for the supply of drug candidate samples; ● slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; ● inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; ● inability or unwillingness of medical investigators and institutional review boards to follow our clinical protocols; and ● lack of sufficient funding to finance the clinical trials. We or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. Additionally, we may have difficulty enrolling patients in our clinical trials. If we experience such difficulties, we may not be able to complete the clinical trial or we may experience significant delays in completing the clinical trial. If the results of our clinical trials fail to support our drug candidate claims, the completion of development of such drug candidate may be significantly delayed or we may be forced to abandon development altogether, which will significantly impair our ability to generate product revenues. 15 Table of Contents Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that our results will support our drug candidate claims. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a drug candidate and may delay development of other drug candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, delay our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, our trial designs may involve a small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of early clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. In addition, standard of care treatments may change which would require additional studies to be done. Our drug candidates are in various stages of development and require extensive clinical testing, which are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design. Archexin, our oncology drug candidate, recently completed Phase IIa trials for pancreatic cancer. RX-3117, another oncology drug candidate, completed an exploratory Phase I clinical trial. On August 6, 2012, we released the results that the study demonstrated the oral bioavailability of RX-3117 in humans when delivered orally to patients, and there were no adverse events reported in the study. RX-5902, another drug oncology candidate may enter Phase I clinical trials in 2013. In November, 2011 we released results that the Phase IIb clinical study showed that Serdaxin did not demonstrate efficacy compared to the placebo group as measured by MADRS. We completed our Phase IIa clinical trial for Zoraxel, and are evaluating how to proceed with the Phase IIb study. We are looking for partners who can fund the further development, license the products or cooperate for commercialization. We currently rely on Teva to provide funds for the development of RX-3117. If Teva does not continue to provide funding, we may not be able to continue developing this drug candidate. In 2009, we closed on the RELO Agreement, and the related purchase agreement, with Teva providing for the development of our novel anti-cancer compound, RX-3117. Pursuant to the RELO Agreement, Teva has the option to obtain an exclusive, world-wide license from us for the research, development, distribution and commercialization of RX-3117. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement, Teva purchased 3,102,837 shares of our common stock for $3.5 million in 2009, an additional 2,334,515 shares of our common stock for $3.95 million in 2011, and has agreed that it will exercise an option to purchase $750,000 of our common stock at 120% of closing market share price on or around December 7, 2012. Under these agreements, we will be eligible to receive additional development, regulatory and sales milestone payments. In addition, we will be eligible to receive royalties on net sales worldwide. Further on November 27, 2012, Teva agreed (i) to provide us with an additional $926,000 of research funding in our development of RX-3117 and (ii) to conduct additional research and development work for RX-3117 on our behalf. There can be no assurances that Teva will provide additional funding, if needed, to complete the development of RX-3117. If Teva decided to discontinue funding, we may not be able to continue developing RX-3117, and therefore, would not earn any royalties on the product. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, our ability to generate revenue from sales of our products will be materially impaired. Even if the FDA approves our drug candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Future acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: ● awareness of the drug’s availability and benefits; ● perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; ● pharmacological benefit and cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; ● availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; 16 Table of Contents ● effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any; and ● the price at which we sell our products. Because we expect sales of our current drug candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Much of our drug development program depends upon third-party researchers, and the results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a limited extent, beyond our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical, toxicology studies, and clinical trials. This business practice is typical for the pharmaceutical industry and companies like us. For example, the Phase I clinical trials of Archexin were conducted at the Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center of Georgetown Medical Center and the University of Alabama at Birmingham, with the assistance of Amarex, LLC, a pharmaceutical clinical research service provider who is responsible for creating the reports that will be submitted to the FDA. We also relied on TherImmune Research Corporation (now named Bridge Global Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.), a discovery and pre-clinical service provider, to summarize Archexin‘s pre-clinical data. While we make every effort internally to oversee their work, these collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, may be delayed. The risk of completion or delay of these studies is not within our direct control and a program delay may occur due to circumstances outside our control. A delay in any of these programs may not necessarily have a direct impact on our daily operations. However, to the extent that a delay results in additional cost to us, a higher than expected expense may result. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our drug candidates, which expose us to a number of risks that may delay development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products or result in higher product costs. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing. Internally, we lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own drug candidates. Therefore, we rely on third party expertise to support us in this area. For example, we have entered into contracts with third-party manufacturers such as UPM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to manufacture, supply, store and distribute supplies of our drug candidates for our clinical trials. If any of our drug candidates receive FDA approval, we will rely on these or other third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following potential risks: ● We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, the production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. ● Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs. ● Our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. 17 Table of Contents ● Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, but we may be ultimately responsible for any of their failures. ● If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights of formulation patents. ● A third party manufacturer may gain knowledge from working with us that could be used to supply one of our competitors with a product that competes with ours. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, drug approval and commercialization and potentially result in higher costs and/or reduced revenues. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and currently no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. While we intend to have a role in the commercialization of our products, we do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to develop global sales and marketing capabilities for all of our proposed products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies having sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, the collaborator’s strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborator’s ability to successfully market and sell any such products. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with third party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, as well as the terms of our agreements with such third parties, which cannot be predicted at this early stage of our development. We cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to market and sell our products in the United States or overseas. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, such as Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Genta Incorporated and Imclone Systems Incorporated, as well as academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as more experience in: ● developing drugs; ● undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; ● obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; ● formulating and manufacturing drugs; and 18 Table of Contents ● launching, marketing and selling drugs. Large pharmaceutical companies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli-Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer and Glaxo-SmithKline currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of cancer, depression and erectile dysfunction. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish and our business and competitive position would suffer. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have an active patent protection program that includes filing patent applications on new compounds to treat cancer and other conditions, formulations, delivery systems, and methods of making and using products, and prosecuting these patent applications in the United States and abroad. As patents issue, we also file continuation applications for some of them. Through these actions, we are building a patent portfolio of patents assigned to and licensed to the Company. Further, Rexahn is developing proprietary research and platforms to strengthen and expand our innovative pipelines. However, we cannot predict: ● the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our licensed patents; ● if and when patents will issue in the United States or any other country; ● whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our licensed patents and patent applications; ● whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose; ● whether our patents will be challenged by our competitors alleging that a patent is invalid or unenforceable and, if opposed or litigated, the outcome of any administrative or court action as to patent validity, enforceability, or scope; ● whether a competitor will develop a similar compound that is outside the scope of protection afforded by a patent or whether the patent scope is inherent in the claims modified due to interpretation of claim scope by a court; ● whether there were activities previously undertaken by a licensor that could limit the scope, validity, or enforceability of licensed patents and intellectual property; ● whether there will be challenges or litigation brought by a licensor alleging breach of a license agreement and its effect on our ability to practice particular technologies and the outcome of any such challenge or litigation; or ● whether a competitor will assert infringement of its patents or intellectual property, whether or not meritorious, and what the outcome of any related litigation or challenge may be. 19 Table of Contents Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all employees to enter into agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. Due to legal and factual uncertainties regarding the scope and protection afforded by patents and other proprietary rights, we may not have meaningful protection from competition. Our long-term success will substantially depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technologies from infringement, misappropriation, discovery and duplication and avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our patent rights and the patent rights of development stage biopharmaceutical companies in general, are highly uncertain and include complex legal and factual issues. These uncertainties also mean that any patents that we own or will obtain in the future could be subject to challenge, and even if not challenged, may not provide us with meaningful protection from competition. Patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us. In connection with the process of seeking patent protection for RX-5902 in Japan, we filed a patent application including claims covering RX-5902 with the Japanese Patent Office (JPO) for examination. The JPO initially agreed that the claims covering the compound for RX-5902 were allowable, but as a result of a mistake in the patent application filing as prepared and submitted by our Japanese patent attorneys and incomplete review by the JPO’s patent examiner, the JPO issued a decision to grant a patent with claims that did not include RX-5902. We appealed this decision within the JPO to request withdrawal of the decision to grant so that the correct claims would be allowed, but the JPO refused to withdraw its decision. As a result, and in accordance with Japanese law and procedure for appealing patent application decisions, we have filed a lawsuit against the JPO in Tokyo District Court to cause the JPO to reverse its decision to grant the errant patent and to allow a patent that includes claims covering RX-5902. The patent application at issue remains pending subject to the outcome of this action. There can be no guarantee that we will be successful in winning the appeal to correct the error in the patent registration which would exclude the compound for RX-5902. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products and be forced to pay damages and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and may have to: ● obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; ● redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; ● stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our drug candidates; ● pay damages; or ● defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. Although to date, we have not received any claims of infringement by any third parties, as our drug candidates move into clinical trials and commercialization, our public profile and that of our drug candidates may be raised and generate such claims. 20 Table of Contents Our license agreement with Revaax may be terminated in the event we commit a material breach, the result of which would significantly harm our business prospects. Our license agreement with Revaax is subject to termination by Revaax if we materially breach our obligations under the agreement, including breaches with respect to certain installment payments and royalty payments, if such breaches are not cured within a 60-day period. The agreement also provides that it may be terminated if we become involved in a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding. If this license agreement is terminated, we will lose all of our rights to develop and commercialize the licensed compounds, including Serdaxin and Zoraxel. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business may be harmed. In addition to our own internally developed drug candidates, we proactively seek opportunities to license-in the compounds in oncology and other therapeutic areas that are strategic and have value creating potential to take advantage of our development know-how. We are actively pursuing additional drug candidates to acquire for development. Such additional drug candidates could significantly increase our capital requirements and place further strain on the time of our existing personnel, which may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development of our existing drug candidates. Alternatively, we may be required to hire more employees, further increasing the size of our organization and related expenses. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not efficiently use our resources, which may delay the development of our drug candidates and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Our success may be negatively impacted if key personnel leave. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our future success. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel, especially Dr. Chang H. Ahn, our Chairman and Chief Science Officer, and regulatory expert, could result in delays in product development and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. Dr. Ahn stepped down as Chief Executive Officer in February, 2013 but will remain with the Company as our Chief Scientist and Chairman, and we appointed Peter D. Suzdak as our Chief Executive Officer. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies for any of our officers. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators. Although we currently carry clinical trial insurance and product liability insurance we, or any collaborators, may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitles us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. 21 Table of Contents An investment in shares of our common stock is very speculative and involves a very high degree of risk. To date, we have generated no revenues from product sales and only minimal revenues from interest on bank account balances and short-term investments. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $63,311,283 and $57,084,613, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2012, and 2011, we had net losses of $6,226,670 and $11,344,950, respectively, partially as a result of expenses incurred through a combination of research and development activities related to the various technologies under our control and expenses supporting those activities. Until we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our drug candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: ● the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; ● changes in our relationships with our licensors or other strategic partners; ● developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; ● variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; ● changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and ● developments in the biotechnology industry. Further, the stock market, in general, and the market for biotechnology companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. You should also be aware that price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. We have not declared or paid, and do not expect to declare or pay, any cash dividends on our common stock because we anticipate that any earnings generated from future operations will be used to finance our operations and as a result, you will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock until and unless you sell your shares at a profit. Some or all of the “restricted” shares of our common stock issued in the merger of CPRD and Rexahn, Corp or held by other stockholders may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. In general, an affiliated person who has held restricted shares for a period of six months may, upon filing with the SEC a notification on Form 144, sell into the market common stock in an amount equal to 1 percent of the outstanding shares (approximately 1,200,000 shares) during a three-month period. Non-affiliates may sell restricted securities after six months without any limits on volume. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE AMEX under the trading symbol “RNN.” However, because our common stock may be a “penny stock,” it may be more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, we are not listed on a national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or we have not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that transactions in penny stock are suitable for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a periodic statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold in violation of the penny stock rules, purchasers may be able to cancel their purchase and get their money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, purchasers may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate. 22 Table of Contents We may require additional capital funding the receipt of which may impair the value of our common stock. If we expand more rapidly than currently anticipated or if our working capital needs exceed our current expectations, we may need to raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors including our research, development, sales and marketing activities. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or will be available on terms favorable to us. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and the new equity securities may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock. We have not paid dividends to our stockholders in the past, and we do not anticipate paying dividends to our stockholders in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, to fund the operation of our business, and therefore we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 