ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - --------------------- Risks Associated with our Business Our loan portfolio consists of a high percentage of loans secured by commercial real estate and multi-family real estate. These loans are riskier than loans secured by one- to four-family properties. At December 31, 2006, $192.1 million, or 59.6% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and multi-family real estate loans. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. These loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation and income stream of the borrower's business. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 26 We may not be able to successfully maintain and manage our growth. Since December 31, 2002, our assets have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 29.2%, our loan balances have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 27.1% and our deposits have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 23.7%. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market presence, successfully attract core deposits, and identify attractive commercial lending opportunities. We cannot be certain as to our ability to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities. We may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loans balances, which may adversely impact our efficiency ratio, earnings and shareholder returns. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of their loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not cover losses in our loan portfolio at the date of the financial statements. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. At December 31, 2006, our allowance for loan losses totaled $3.7 million, representing 1.16% of total loans. While we have only been operating for six years, we have experienced significant growth in our loan portfolio, particularly our loans secured by commercial real estate. Although we believe we have underwriting standards to manage normal lending risks, and although we had $323,000, or 0.06% of total assets consisting of non-performing assets at December 31, 2006, it is difficult to assess the future performance of our loan portfolio due to the relatively recent origination of many of these loans. We can give you no assurance that our non-performing loans will not increase or that our non-performing or delinquent loans will not adversely affect our future performance. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 27 We depend primarily on net interest income for our earnings rather than fee income. Net interest income is the most significant component of our operating income. We do not rely on traditional sources of fee income utilized by some community banks, such as fees from sales of insurance, securities or investment advisory products or services. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, our net interest income was $17.8 million and $15.9 million, respectively. The amount of our net interest income is influenced by the overall interest rate environment, competition, and the amount of interest earning assets relative to the amount of interest bearing liabilities. In the event that one or more of these factors were to result in a decrease in our net interest income, we do not have significant sources of fee income to make up for decreases in net interest income. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between the interest we earn on loans and investments and the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. The interest rates on our assets and liabilities respond differently to changes in market interest rates, which means our interest-bearing liabilities may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates change, this "gap" between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that reprice in response to these interest rate changes may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations in market interest rates, which are affected by, among other factors, changes in the following: o inflation rates; o business activity levels; o money supply; and o domestic and foreign financial markets. The value of our investment portfolio and the composition of our deposit base are influenced by prevailing market conditions and interest rates. Our asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate the risk to us from changes in market interest rates, may not prevent changes in interest rates or securities market downturns from reducing deposit outflow or from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition or the value of our investments. Adverse events in New Jersey, where our business is concentrated, could adversely affect our results and future growth. Our business, the location of our branches and the real estate collateralizing our real estate loans are concentrated in New Jersey. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks. 28 The occurrence of an economic downturn in New Jersey, or adverse changes in laws or regulations in New Jersey could impact the credit quality of our assets, the business of our customers and our ability to expand our business. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing in our market area. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. In addition, the economies of the communities in which we operate are substantially dependent on the growth of the economy in the State of New Jersey. To the extent that economic conditions in New Jersey are unfavorable or do not continue to grow as projected, the economy in our market area would be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market area if they do occur. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 95.3% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Adverse developments affecting commerce or real estate values in the local economies in our primary market areas could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. Our business customers may not have customer bases that are as diverse as businesses serving regional or national markets. Consequently, any decline in the economy of our market area could have an adverse impact on our revenues and financial condition. In particular, we may experience increased loan delinquencies, which could result in a higher provision for loan losses and increased charge-offs. Any sustained period of increased non-payment, delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market area could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Like other bank holding companies and financial institutions, we must comply with significant anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws. Under these laws, we are required, among other things, to enforce a customer identification program and file currency transaction and suspicious activity reports with the federal government. Government agencies have substantial discretion to impose significant monetary penalties on institutions which fail to 29 comply with these laws or make required reports. Because we operate our business in the highly urbanized greater Newark/New York City metropolitan area, we may be at greater risk of scrutiny by government regulators for compliance with these laws. We expect to incur additional expense in connection with our compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required to conduct a comprehensive review and assessment of the adequacy of our existing financial systems and controls at December 31, 2007. This is expected to result in additional expenses in 2007. Moreover, a review of our financial systems and controls may uncover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If that is the case, we would have to take the necessary steps to correct any deficiencies, which may be costly and may strain our management resources and negatively impact earnings. We also would be required to disclose any such deficiencies, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ---------------------------------- None. 