D. Risk Factors Rinker group entities are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions, particularly in the United States and Australia. Certain of these risks are described below. Rinker group entities could also be subject to other risks that management has not anticipated. 10 Rinker group’s operations are dependent to a significant extent on demand across the construction industry economic cycle and the Rinker group’s revenues and profits in future periods may fluctuate with that cycle. The activity of businesses in the Rinker group is dependent on the level of activity in the construction industry in the various regional markets in the United States and in Australia where Rinker group companies operate. The construction industry in a given geographic market has historically tended to be cyclical. Within each geographic region construction industry spending can vary significantly from peak to trough through the business cycle. The construction industry is also very sensitive to fluctuations in general economic activity in the particular economy. Rinker estimates that a 1% revenue change related to volumes across the Rinker group as a whole, without regard to the different cycles within each industry, region, or market, would have an annual impact on revenue of approximately US$51 million and on EBIT of approximately US$12 million. Rinker is not able to predict the timing, extent or duration of the business cycles or economic downturns in the construction industry in the geographic regions in which Rinker group companies operate. Because many of Rinker group’s costs are fixed, if an extended downturn in one or more segments of the construction industry occurs, particularly in Florida or Arizona in the US or in Australia, companies in the Rinker group may not readily be able to reduce their costs in proportion to the extent of the downturn. Any significant or extended downturn in the construction industry in those geographic regions will negatively affect the Rinker group’s financial performance and condition where revenues fail to grow or fall and costs do not move to compensate. An overview of the United States and Australian markets is included in “Item 4 – Information on the Rinker group”. The Rinker group’s operations are dependent to a significant extent on demand in selected key US states and the Rinker group’s revenues and hence profits in future periods may fluctuate with the underlying industry economic cycle of those states. A significant proportion of the Rinker group’s revenue was generated from Florida (44%) and Arizona (13%) in the year ended March 31, 2006. As a result, fluctuations in the underlying economic cycle may result in variations in EBIT in similar proportion to the overall margin impact on Rinker as previously described for the construction industry cycle. The Rinker group is especially dependent on market demand for its heavy building materials products in those markets. A downturn in demand in the residential or other heavy building materials markets in these states could have a significant adverse impact on the Rinker group’s financial performance and condition where revenues fail to grow or fall and costs do not move to compensate. Any adverse impacts on the Florida economy arising from the cessation or significant restriction of quarrying operations in the Lake Belt could also have a material adverse effect on Rinker. See Legal Proceedings in “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information” on page 120. Government funded construction activity in the US may be lower in future periods and the Rinker group’s revenues and profits in future periods may fluctuate depending on the level of Government funding of civil construction. The Rinker group’s largest exposure to the US civil construction sector is in roads, highways and bridges. Approximately 13% of the Rinker group’s revenue for the year ended March 31, 2006 is estimated to be related to the US civil construction sector. Any significant decrease in future US federal or state infrastructure funding levels may negatively affect the Rinker group’s financial performance and condition where revenues fall and costs do not move to compensate. 11 Rinker group’s operations depend on securing and permitting aggregate reserves that can be supplied economically to growing markets. Construction aggregates are bulky and the cost to transport may surpass the cost of material. Generally, aggregate is supplied from local quarries. New quarry sites often take a number of years to develop and must be planned well in advance. As communities grow, existing quarry locations may be depleted, or quarry production may be restricted by additional regulation and some of the most attractive sites for new quarries may be used for other building, or may be difficult to permit for quarrying. To meet forecasted needs, Rinker’s strategy is to secure additional land and permits in target markets where possible, and to develop the distribution network to transport aggregates by truck, rail and water in order to maintain economic sources of supply. Certain quarry permits in South Florida are currently being challenged. See Legal Proceedings in “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information” on page 120. The Rinker group has grown significantly through acquisitions and may be unable to continue its growth by this means if suitable opportunities cannot be identified. The Rinker group’s performance is also affected by its ability to integrate any acquisitions into its existing operations. The Rinker group has grown significantly in recent years through a series of bolt on acquisitions, the most recent major acquisition being Kiewit in September 2002. A key element of the Rinker group’s growth strategy is to continue its acquisition strategy. The Rinker group’s ability to realize benefits from future acquisitions depends, in large part, on its ability to integrate the acquired businesses with its existing operations in a timely and effective manner. The Rinker group’s efforts to integrate any future acquisitions may not be successful. The Rinker group’s acquisition strategy also depends on its ability to identify and acquire suitable assets at desirable prices. The Rinker group may not be successful in identifying or acquiring suitable assets at acceptable prices in the future. To the extent the Rinker group fails to be successful in acquiring suitable assets at acceptable prices in the future, it is unlikely to be able to continue to grow its earnings at the same rate as it has done in the recent past. Rinker may need to pay for all or part of the purchase price for any future acquisitions with its ordinary shares. These acquisitions and investments, if they were to occur, could have a diluting effect for Rinker’s shareholders and, whether they are paid for in cash or Rinker shares may cause Rinker’s share price to decrease. The Rinker group may be affected by problems in previously acquired businesses or newly constructed plants. Unforeseen problems may impact future profits. The Rinker group has completed a number of significant acquisitions and plant construction projects as detailed in “Item 4 – Information on the Rinker group.” The Rinker group may not have anticipated all problems of acquired businesses and plant construction, and losses associated with these acquisitions or projects may come to light prior to the expiration of any warranty and indemnity protections, or the Rinker group may be unable to enforce such provisions against the parties making the indemnities. If problems arise they may impact the Rinker group’s future profit if the Rinker group is required to extinguish unforeseen liabilities or there is significant impairment of assets requiring write down at some future date. The Rinker group may be subject to competition from existing and new market entrants and products, which could impact future revenues and profits. Each market in which Rinker group companies operate is highly competitive. The competitive environment can be significantly affected by a number of regional factors, such as the number of competitors, production capacity, economic conditions and product demand in the relevant regional market. The pricing policies of competitors and the entry of new competitors into the regional markets in which Rinker group companies operate can have an adverse effect on demand for their products and on 12 their financial performance or condition where revenues fail to grow or fall and profit margins are reduced. Rinker group companies face competition from alternative products. For example, the concrete pipe products operations of Rinker Materials and Readymix face competition from plastic, metal and fiber cement pipe products in the smaller diameter size segment of the market. Product substitution of alternative materials for Rinker group products may have an adverse effect on the Rinker group’s financial performance or condition where revenues fail to grow or fall and profit margins are reduced. In many markets in which the Rinker group operates there are no significant entry barriers that would prevent new competitors from entering the market or existing competitors from expanding in the market. Rinker group entities are subject to extensive health, environmental, land use, and other governmental laws and regulations, which could have an impact on the Rinker group’s future financial performance. Rinker group entities are subject to extensive health, environmental, land use, and other governmental laws and regulations and increasing regulatory compliance requirements. Depending on the extent of future regulations that may be enacted, Rinker group entities may be required to invest in preventive or remedial action, which could be significant, in which case it could have an adverse impact on the Rinker group’s financial performance and condition. Tighter land use or zoning restrictions affecting existing quarry permits or making new quarry permits more difficult to obtain could also restrict the ability of companies in the Rinker group to conduct their businesses economically or restrict some activities altogether. Legal challenges to existing permits could restrict the ability of the Rinker group to utilize existing quarry reserves. See Legal Proceedings in “Item 8.A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information” on page 120 for a discussion of a challenge to certain permits issued in South Florida. Environmental liabilities, if incurred, could have an adverse impact on the Rinker group’s financial performance and condition. Stricter environmental laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation and enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on Rinker group companies or result in the need for additional investments in pollution control equipment, either of which could result in a decline in the Rinker group’s profitability. Further details regarding environmental regulation and certain liability issues affecting companies within the Rinker group are contained in section “Item 4 – Information on the Rinker group.” Occupational health and safety risks and regulations may have an impact on future productivity and financial performance. Rinker group entities are subject to the operating risks associated with construction materials and other manufacturing and handling risks, including the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These hazards include storage tank leaks and ruptures, explosions, discharges or releases of hazardous substances, manual handling, exposure to dust and the operation of mobile equipment and manufacturing machinery. Such operating risks can cause personal injury and property damage, and may result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The occurrence of any of these events may have an adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility and the operating results of Rinker group entities through increased costs or reduced operating flexibility and productivity. Crystalline silica dust and its control have been identified as an occupational health issue in Rinker group entities’ operations in Australia and in the US. Rinker group entities use raw materials containing 13 silica in cement manufacturing, concrete plants, concrete products plants and asphalt plants. Many quarry products also contain silica. Rinker group entities may face future costs of engineering and compliance to meet new standards relating to crystalline silica since regulatory agencies in Australia and the US are re-examining existing standards and considering stricter exposure limits. Rinker group entities cannot reliably quantify future claims related to crystalline silica. Any future claims could have an impact on the Rinker group’s profitability. Labor disputes between Rinker group companies and unions could disrupt operations that could have an impact on the Rinker group’s future financial performance. Approximately forty percent of Rinker Materials’ employees and approximately thirty per cent of Readymix employees are covered by bargaining agreements which periodically come up for renegotiation and renewal. In the next twelve months, 11 contracts, covering approximately 700 employees, are scheduled to expire in the United States. In Readymix, Australia, 18 agreements are due to be renegotiated in the next twelve months covering approximately 600 employees. Disputes with trade unions could lead to strikes or other forms of industrial action that could disrupt operations within the Rinker group, raise costs and reduce Rinker group’s revenues and profits. Any such disruptions to operations within the Rinker group may adversely affect the group’s financial performance and condition through increased costs and reduced productivity. The Rinker group may face potential liability for defective products, which could have an impact on future profits. Due to the nature of its operations, claims against Rinker group entities could arise from defects in material or products manufactured and/or supplied by Rinker group entities. Purchasers and third parties could make claims against Rinker group entities based on their delivery of defective materials or products, or for damage or loss arising from the use of these defective materials or products. If any claims of this type are determined against Rinker group entities and if the Rinker group’s existing insurance arrangements do not cover the liability, it could have an adverse effect on the financial performance and condition of the Rinker group due to increased rectification costs or liability for compensation. Antitrust (trade practices) risks may restrict the Rinker group’s business activities and its ability to grow. Rinker group entities are subject to antitrust or trade practices laws. Antitrust or competition considerations may restrict business activities within the Rinker group and the ability to grow through acquisitions or participate in industry rationalization in particular geographic markets. This could have an adverse impact on the Rinker group’s financial performance where revenues fail to grow or fall and or profit margins are reduced. Operation and supply failures or shortages could have an impact on the Rinker group’s future revenues and profits. The manufacturing facilities and supply of finished products to customers of Rinker group entities could be disrupted for reasons beyond their control. These disruptions include extremes of weather, fire, natural catastrophes, supplies of materials, transport logistics, services, energy or fuel, system failures, workforce actions or environmental issues. Any significant disruptions or shortages could adversely affect Rinker group entities’ ability to make, sell and deliver products, which could cause revenues to decline or costs to increase and result in lower profits. 14 Rinker group entities may be required to provide further funds to cover the defined benefit obligations of those superannuation (pension) funds in which it participates. Superannuation (pension) funds in which Rinker group entities participate provide both defined benefits and accumulation benefits. Any funding deficits are intended to be funded progressively by Rinker group entities and all minimum funding requirements have currently been satisfied. The estimated liability for the total defined benefit obligation, including the US$25.7 million funding deficit for US plans under A-IFRS, is accrued on the balance sheet. There is a risk that, in the future, changes in the value of the funds’ assets, changes in actuarial determinations of the funds’ liabilities or changes to government legislation could require Rinker group entities to increase their current level of contributions to these funds and adversely impact financial performance. Details of Rinker group entities’ defined benefit plans are included in “Item 5.H. – Details of defined benefit pension plans”. The Rinker group could be affected by interest rate fluctuations. If interest rates rise, borrowing costs may be higher, and higher interest rates may adversely affect construction activity levels. The Rinker group’s external borrowings at March 31, 2006 were US$651 million of which, prior to the effect of interest rate swaps, approximately US$356 million or 55% was paying interest at fixed rates. Taking into account around US$250 million of variable to fixed rate interest rate swaps in place at March 31, 2006, the Rinker group’s net fixed interest rate borrowings were approximately US$606 million or 93% of gross debt. Accordingly, movements in interest rates may impact the Rinker group’s debt servicing obligations and borrowing costs, impacting its financial performance. Rinker estimates that based on the amount of its outstanding indebtedness at March 31, 2006, a 1% increase in variable interest rates would have had an insignificant adverse impact on the Rinker group’s net profit for the year ended March 31, 2006. An increase in interest rates may reduce construction activity levels within both the residential and commercial segments of the market. This could have an adverse impact on the Rinker group’s financial performance where revenues fail to grow or fall and costs do not move to compensate. Details on interest rate risks are included in “Item 11 - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risks.” General risks associated with investing in shares may impact the value of Rinker shares and ADRs. The price of Rinker ordinary shares and ADRs is subject to many influences that may affect the broad trend in the stock market or the share prices of individual companies. The price at which Rinker ordinary shares trade on ASX and at which Rinker ADRs trade on NYSE may be affected by a number of factors unrelated to the Rinker group’s financial and operating performance and over which Rinker has no control. Factors such as currency exchange rates, product prices, the level of industrial production, changes in government fiscal, monetary and regulatory policy, investor attitudes, stock market fluctuations in Australia and other stock markets around the world, changes in interest rates and inflation, and variations in general market or economic conditions could all have an adverse effect on the price of Rinker ordinary shares and ADRs. E. Supplementary Information - Australian Dollar/Exchange Rates Currency of Presentation and Exchange Rates Rinker’s US and Australian subsidiaries each generate virtually all revenue and incur all costs in their local currency. As a result, directors believe their performance is best measured in their local currency. At the group level, Rinker Materials represents around 80% of earnings. As a result, US$ performance represents the most appropriate measure of Rinker’s performance and value. Under A-IFRS, Rinker’s 15 selected reporting currency is US$, although Rinker group intends to continue to disclose Readymix results in both US$ and A$. Readymix Australian dollar results are translated to US dollar presentation currency using the principles set out in AASB 121 “The Effects of Foreign Exchange Rates.” Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate and income/expense items are translated using an average rate (the closing rate for the month the transactions occurred). All foreign currency translation adjustments are taken directly to equity through foreign currency translation reserve. The financial statements of the parent entity (Rinker Group Limited) have been translated into United States dollars using the methodology described above. This is consistent with both Australian Accounting Standard AASB 121 “The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates” and SEC Rule 3-20(d) of Regulation S-X. The exchange rate used is the Australian 9:55 a.m. hedge settlement rate at the end of each month. The following table sets forth, for each of the Rinker group’s fiscal years indicated and for the most recent months, the high, low, average and period-end Noon Buying Rates for Australian dollars expressed in United States dollars per A$1.00. Year ended March 31 At Period End Average Rate(1) High Low 2005 0.7729 0.7423 0.7974 0.6840 2006 0.7165 0.7531 0.7834 0.7056 Month of December, 2005 0.7342 0.7423 0.7567 0.7261 January, 2006 0.7572 0.7505 0.7572 0.7379 February, 2006 0.7430 0.7418 0.7548 0.7363 March, 2006 0.7165 0.7266 0.7458 0.7056 April, 2006 0.7593 0.7369 0.7593 0.7177 May, 2006 (to May 11) 0.7781 0.7705 0.7781 0.7607 (1) The average of the Noon Buying Rates on the last day of each month during the year or the average for each day of the month as applicable. On May 11, 2006, the Noon Buying Rate was A$1.00 = US$0.7781. The Australian dollar is convertible into United States dollars at freely floating rates and there are currently no restrictions on the flow of Australian currency between Australia and the United States. 