Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. If any of these risks occur, the value of our common stock could decline. We currently have no product revenues, have incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception, and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business. To date, we have generated no product revenues and have incurred negative cash flow from operations. Until we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our drug candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from the net proceeds of equity or debt offerings we may make, cash on hand, licensing fees and grants. Through the end of 2009, we expect to spend approximately $1.2 million on clinical development for Phase II clinical trials of Archexin™, Serdaxin™ and Zoraxel™, and the development of preclinical compounds, $2.4 million on general corporate expenses and approximately $113,000 on facilities rent. We will need to raise additional money through debt and/or equity offerings in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. If we are not able to raise sufficient additional money, we will have to reduce our research and development activities. We will first reduce research and development activities associated with our preclinical compounds. To the extent necessary, we will then reduce our research and development activities related to some or all of our clinical drugs. 19 Index Additionally, changes may occur that would consume our existing capital at a faster rate than projected, including but not limited to, the progress of our research and development efforts, the cost and timing of regulatory approvals and the costs of protecting our intellectual property rights. We may seek additional financing to implement and fund other drug candidate development, clinical trial and research and development efforts, including Phase I clinical trials for other new drug candidates, as well as other research and development projects, which together with the current operating plan for the next year, could aggregate up to $3.6 million through the end of 2009. We will need additional financing to continue to develop our drug candidates, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to complete our planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of our drug candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we may be forced to reduce or discontinue product development or product licensing, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities in order to improve our liquidity to enable us to continue operations. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the sale of our equity securities or securities convertible into our equity securities, which may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable. We have generated no revenues to date from product sales. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $29,906,479 and $24,994,331, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had net losses of $4,912,148 and $4,304,005 respectively, primarily as a result of expenses incurred through a combination of research and development activities related to the various technologies under our control and expenses supporting those activities. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drug candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future, based on the following considerations: · continued pre-clinical development and clinical trials for our current and new drug candidates; · efforts to seek regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; · implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure; · licensing in additional technologies to develop; and 20 Index · hiring additional personnel. We also expect to continue to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. Until we have the capacity to generate revenues, we are relying upon outside funding resources to fund our cash flow requirements. We have a limited operating history. We are a development-stage company with a limited number of drug candidates. To date, we have not demonstrated an ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our drug candidates. The successful commercialization of our drug candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including, but not limited to: · conducting pre-clinical and clinical trials; · participating in regulatory approval processes; · formulating and manufacturing products; and · conducting sales and marketing activities. To date, our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, drug candidate research and development and undertaking, through third parties, pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our principal drug candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for assessment of our ability to commercialize drug candidates. We may not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize our drug candidates. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our drug candidates in the U.S. and approvals from the FDA-equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our drug candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of our drug candidates, we must submit to the FDA a New Drug Application ("NDA") demonstrating that the drug candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA's regulatory requirements typically takes many years, and depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. Two of our drug candidates, Archexin™ and RX-0047, are ASO compounds. To date, the FDA has not approved any NDAs for any ASO compounds. In addition, each of Archexin™, RX-0201-nano and RX-0047-nano is of a drug class (Akt inhibitor, in the case of Archexin™ and RX-0201-nano, and HIF inhibitor, in the case of RX-0047) that has not been approved by the FDA to date, nor have we submitted such NDA. After the clinical trials are completed, the FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize our drugs. Foreign regulatory approval processes generally include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our drug candidates for sale outside the United States. 21 Index Our drug candidates are in early stages of clinical trials. Our drug candidates are in an early stage of development and require extensive clinical testing, which are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design. In 2007, Archexin™, an oncology drug candidate, entered Phase II clinical trials. In 2008, we initiated Phase II clinical trial of Zoraxel™, sexual dysfunction drug candidate, and received FDA approval to initiate Phase II clinical trial of Serdaxin™, drug candidate for depression and other CNS disorders. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our current drug candidates will take up to three years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including, but not limited to: · unforeseen safety issues; · determination of dosing issues; · lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; · reliance on third party suppliers for the supply of drug candidate samples; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators and institutional review boards to follow our clinical protocols; and · lack of sufficient funding to finance the clinical trials. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND submissions or the conduct of these trials. If the results of our clinical trials fail to support our drug candidate claims, the completion of development of such drug candidate may be significantly delayed or we may be forced to abandon development altogether, which will significantly impair our ability to generate product revenues. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that our results will support our drug candidate claims. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our drug candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a drug candidate and may delay development of other drug candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, delay our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, our trial designs may involve a small patient population. Because of the small sample size, the results of early clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. 22 Index If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, our ability to generate revenue from sales of our products will be materially impaired. Even if the FDA approves our drug candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Future acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including: · awareness of the drug's availability and benefits; · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; · pharmacological benefit and cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products; · availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other healthcare payers; · effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any; and · the price at which we sell our products. Because we expect sales of our current drug candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing. Much of our drug development program depends upon third-party researchers, and the results of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a limited extent, beyond our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities and medical institutions, to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials and toxicology studies. This business practice is typical for the pharmaceutical industry and companies like us. For example, the Phase I clinical trials of Archexin™ were conducted at the Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center of Georgetown Medical Center and the University of Alabama at Birmingham, with the assistance of Amarex, LLC, a pharmaceutical clinical research service provider who is responsible for creating the reports that will be submitted to the FDA. We also relied on TherImmune Research Corporation (now named Bridge Global Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.), a discovery and pre-clinical service provider, to summarize Archexin™ 's pre-clinical data. While we make every effort internally to oversee their work, these collaborators are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. For example, we have a billing dispute on the work performance and expenses with Amarex, LLC for clinical trials. The dispute might cause a delay of the program or increase our costs associated with the program. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, may be delayed. The risk of completion or delay of these studies is not within our direct control and a program delay may occur due to circumstances outside our control. A delay in any of these programs may not necessarily have a direct impact on our daily operations. However, to the extent that a delay results in additional cost to us, a higher than expected expense may result. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed. 23 Index We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our drug candidates, which expose us to a number of risks that may delay development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products or result in higher product costs. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing. Internally, we lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own drug candidates. Therefore, we rely on third party expertise to support us in this area. For example, we have entered into contracts with third-party manufacturers such as Raylo Chemicals Inc., Formatech, Inc., Avecia Biotechnology Inc. and UPM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to manufacture, supply, store and distribute supplies of our drug candidates for our clinical trials. If any of our drug candidates receive FDA approval, we will rely on these or other third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following potential risks: · We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, the production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs. · Our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. · Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency ("DEA"), and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practice and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards, but we may be ultimately responsible for any of their failures. · If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, drug approval and commercialization and potentially result in higher costs and/or reduced revenues. 24 Index We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and currently no internal capability to do so. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. While we intend to have a role in the commercialization of our products, we do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to globally develop sales and marketing capabilities for all of our proposed products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies having sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, the collaborator's strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborator's ability to successfully market and sell any such products. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with technical expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with third party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, as well as the terms of its agreements with such third parties, which cannot be predicted at this early stage of our development. We cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to market and sell our products in the United States or overseas. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, such as Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Genta Incorporated and Imclone Systems Incorporated, as well as academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as more experience in: · developing drugs; · undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; · formulating and manufacturing drugs; and · launching, marketing and selling drugs. Large pharmaceutical companies such as Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli-Lilly, Novartis and Glaxo-SmithKline currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of cancer. In addition, companies pursuing different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish and our business and competitive position would suffer. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have filed U.S. and PCT patent applications for anti-Akt compounds, including Archexin™ and anti-HIF compounds, including RX-0047. In November 2006, we were granted a U.S. patent for our anti-Akt compounds, including Archexin™. The patent covers the nucleotide sequences of the antisense compounds that target and inhibit the expression of Akt in human tissues or cells. The patent also covers the method of using the compounds to induce cytotoxicity in cancer cells. We have also filed three U.S. provisional patent applications for new anticancer quinazoline compounds, new anticancer nucleoside products and a drug target, cenexin, a polo-box binding protein. In December 2004, we also filed two Korean patent applications for new anticancer piperazine compounds. Through our licensing agreement with Revaax, we hold exclusive rights to five patents and multiple patent applications, with respect to certain chemical structures related to antibiotics, but without antibiotic efficacy. However, we cannot predict: 25 Index · the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties will find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our licensed patents; · if and when patents will issue; · whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our licensed patents and patent applications; or · whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all employees to enter into agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties we could be prevented from selling products and be forced to pay damages and defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and may have to: · obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our drug candidates; 26 Index · pay damages; or · defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources. Although to date, we have not received any claims of infringement by any third parties, as our drug candidates move into clinical trials and commercialization, our public profile and that of our drug candidates may be raised and generate such claims. Our license agreement with Revaax may be terminated in the event we commit a material breach, the result of which would significantly harm our business prospects. Our license agreement with Revaax is subject to termination by Revaax if we materially breach our obligations under the agreement, including breaches with respect to certain installment payments and royalty payments, if such breaches are not cured within a 60-day period. The agreement also provides that it may be terminated if we become involved in a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding. If this license agreement is terminated, we will lose all of our rights to develop and commercialize the licensed compounds, including Serdaxin™ and Zoraxel™, which would significantly harm our business and future prospects. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business may be harmed. In addition to our own internally developed drug candidates, we proactively seek opportunities to license-in the compounds in oncology and other therapeutic areas that are strategic and have value creating potential to take advantage of our development know-how. We are actively pursuing additional drug candidates to acquire for development. Such additional drug candidates could significantly increase our capital requirements and place further strain on the time of our existing personnel, which may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development of our existing drug candidates. Alternatively, we may be required to hire more employees, further increasing the size of our organization and related expenses. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not efficiently use our resources, which may delay the development of our drug candidates and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Our success may be negatively impacted if key personnel leave. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our future success. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel, especially Dr. Chang H. Ahn, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and regulatory expert, could result in delays in product development and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. We do not have "key person" life insurance policies for any of our officers. 27 Index We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators. Although we currently carry clinical trial insurance and product liability insurance we, or any collaborators, may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitles us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claim arise. An investment in shares of our common stock is very speculative and involves a very high degree of risk. To date, we have generated no revenues from product sales and only minimal revenues from a research agreement with a minority shareholder, and interest on bank account balances and short-term investments. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $29,906,479 and $24,994,331, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had net losses of $4,912,148 and $4,304,005, respectively, primarily as a result of expenses incurred through a combination of research and development activities related to the various technologies under our control and expenses supporting those activities. Until we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our drug candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: · the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; · developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; · variations in our and our competitors' results of operations; · changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and · developments in the biotechnology industry. Further, the stock market, in general, and the market for biotechnology companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. You should also be aware that price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low. We have not paid, and do not expect to pay, any cash dividends because we anticipate that any earnings generated from future operations will be used to finance our operations and as a result, you will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock until and unless you sell your shares at a profit. 28 Index Some or all of the "restricted" shares of our common stock issued in the merger of CPRD and Rexahn, Corp or held by other stockholders may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. In general, an affiliated person who has held restricted shares for a period of six months may, upon filing with the SEC a notification on Form 144, sell into the market common stock in an amount equal to 1 percent of the outstanding shares (approximately 600,000 shares) during a three-month period. Non-affiliates may sell restricted securities after six months without any limits on volume. Our common stock may be delisted from NYSE Alternext. On February 24, 2009, we received a notice from NYSE Alternext providing notification that we are not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(iii) of the NYSE Alternext US LLC Company Guide (the “Guide”) because we have stockholders’ equity of less than $6,000,000 and losses from continuing operations and net losses in our five most recent fiscal years. We must submit a plan of compliance by March 24, 2009 addressing how we intend to regain compliance with Section 1003(a)(iii) of the Guide within a maximum of eighteen months (the “Plan Period”). The Corporate Compliance Department management of NYSE Alternext will evaluate our plan and determine whether we have reasonably demonstrated that we will be able to regain compliance with the continued listing standards. If the plan is accepted, we will be subject to review during the Plan Period. We intend to submit our plan by March 24, 2009. If we do not submit a plan or if our plan is not accepted, we will immediately become subject to delisting proceedings. Additionally, if the plan is accepted but we are not in compliance with the continued listing standards of the Guide within the appropriate time periods, or if we do not make progress consistent with the plan during the Plan Period, we will become subject to delisting proceedings. We believe that the listing of our common stock on a recognized national trading market, such as NYSE Alternext, is an important part of our business and strategy. Such a listing helps our stockholders by providing a readily available trading market with current quotations. Without that, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock would likely decline. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our common stock as currency or the value accorded it by other parties. The delisting from NYSE Alternext would result in negative publicity and would negatively impact our ability to raise capital in the future. If NYSE Alternext delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited ability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE Alternext. However, because our common stock may be a "penny stock," it may be more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 29 Index Our common stock may be a "penny stock" if, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, we are not listed on a national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the Nasdaq Stock Market, or we have not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser, and obtain the purchaser's written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold in violation of the penny stock rules, purchasers may be able to cancel their purchase and get their money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, purchasers may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary in order for us to provide reliable financial and other reports and effectively prevent fraud. These types of controls are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the proper preparation of our financial statements, as well as regarding the timely reporting of material information. If we cannot maintain effective internal control or disclosure controls and procedures, or provide reliable financial or SEC reports or prevent fraud, investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, our common stock could be subject to delisting on the stock exchange where it is traded, our operating results and the trading price of our common stock could suffer, and we might become subject to litigation. While our management will continue to review the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, there is no assurance that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives, including the prevention and detection of fraud, all of the time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 