ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally adversely affected our businesses and profitability in 2008, and we expect these conditions to continue to adversely affect our business and profitability in 2009. During the second half of 2007 and throughout 2008, significant weakness and volatility in the credit markets stemming from difficulties in the U.S. housing market spread to the broader financial market and led to a decline in global economic growth that has resulted in a significant recession. Specifically, declines in the value of subprime mortgages spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, then to leveraged bank loans and eventually to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The declines in asset values had collateral consequences that increased the downward pressure on valuations. For example, investor margin calls, collateral posting requirements among counterparties, and redemptions within asset management increased. The decrease in asset values, coupled with the loss of investor confidence, exacerbated the negative market conditions, which eventually led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. As a result, financial institutions have reduced their willingness to lend, reducing liquidity that has historically funded large sections of the U.S. economy. In 2009, it is expected that these conditions and the recession will persist, causing a continuation of the unfavorable economic and market dynamics experienced in 2008, and possibly leading to a further decline in economic and market conditions. These conditions have had, and will continue to have, a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition because performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity. We expect the reduced transaction volumes, reduced revenue and reduced profitability that we experienced in almost all of our main businesses in 2008 to continue throughout 2009. For example: • Our investment banking revenue, in the form of underwriting, placement and financial advisory fees from equity, acquisition and disposition, and public finance transactions, is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions as well as our role in these transactions. In 2008, the unfavorable market or economic conditions, which we expect to prevail during 2009, significantly reduced the volume and size of capital-raising transactions and advisory engagements for acquisitions and dispositions, thereby reducing the demand for our investment banking services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. For example, only one initial public offering was completed in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the market for IPOs was at a thirty-year low at the conclusion of 2008. These conditions had, and will continue to have, a negative impact on our deal pipelines by reducing the backlog of transactions, the frequency and size of these transactions and the related underwriting, placement and advisory fees we receive for them, and our role in the transactions generating these fees. • Changes in interest rates and uncertainty regarding the future direction of interest rates materially adversely affected certain of our businesses in 2008, including our Fixed Income Services and Public Finance Services businesses. Within our Public Finance Services business, for example, the extreme disruptions in the credit market during the third quarter of this year caused us to consolidate our TOB program onto our balance sheet, resulting in a $21.7 million loss in the third quarter and additional losses in the fourth quarter. Further, these disruptions had a significant impact on the fair value of certain interest rate swap contracts for which we have credit risk, which if terminated at current values could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. With respect to our Fixed Income Services business, the disruptions in the credit market during the year significantly reduced the demand for short-term fixed income products, particularly auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes. During the year, we voluntarily increased our inventory positions in these securities, particularly auction rate securities, exposing ourselves to greater market risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions. We currently hold $18 million of auction rate securities as of December 31, 2008. With respect to variable rate demand notes, we initially increased our inventory positions, then began tendering the securities to the financial institutions that provided liquidity guarantees for the securities. If the turmoil in the credit markets continues, we could experience additional losses or disruptions in these businesses and others during 2009. 5 Table of Contents • During 2008, declines in the value of our positions relating to proprietary trading, investing and similar activities, resulted in reduced revenues and financial losses. For example, our high-yield and structured products business specializes in the secondary sales and trading market for aircraft finance debt, and the value of our positions related to this debt declined in 2008, contributing to financial losses for the year. We could experience similar reductions in the value of our inventory positions in 2009, which would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. • We may experience a decline in institutional sales and trading revenue in 2009, particularly with respect to our Equities business, due to significantly reduced market values and asset levels, reduced commissions resulting from these declines, lower volume levels as volatility declines, and a reduction in the number of market participants, particularly hedge funds. A decline in institutional and trading revenue as a result of these factors would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, and this impact could be material. • The downturn in the financial markets, which has reduced asset valuations, has adversely impacted our asset management business by reducing the value of assets under management, and as a result, the revenues associated with this business. Continued declines in asset values within the financial markets will continue to negatively impact our asset management business. In addition, concerns about the profitability and solvency of financial institutions increased during the year following the forced merger or failure of a number of prominent financial institutions, and these concerns had a negative impact on our business during 2008 in certain limited respects. Further concerns about the profitability and solvency of financial institutions during 2009 could have a more significant impact on our business, including with respect to our relationships with clients, counterparties and liquidity sources. For example, recent concerns over the possible nationalization of prominent financial institutions have negatively impacted the stock price of numerous financial services companies, including ours, and could have other negative impacts on our operations and financial results. It is difficult to predict how long these uncertain and unfavorable market and economic conditions and the accompanying recession will continue, whether contagion from the global credit crisis will cause market and economic conditions to continue to deteriorate, and which of our markets, products and businesses will continue to be adversely affected and to what degree. Currently, we anticipate these challenging market conditions will persist throughout 2009. We expect that equity and debt financing and acquisition and disposition activity will remain depressed through 2009. Our financial performance will be negatively impacted by these conditions because our business depends heavily on these markets, particularly equity financing, public finance and acquisition and disposition activity. The cyclical nature of the economy and this industry leads to volatility in our financial results, including our operating margins, compensation ratios and revenue and expense levels. In the current climate, our ability to attain break-even performance at reduced revenue levels may be limited by the fixed nature of certain expenses, the impact from unanticipated losses or expenses during the year and the inability to scale back costs in a timeframe to match decreases in revenue related changes in market and economic conditions. As a result, our financial results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Developments in specific sectors of the economy during 2008 adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability. Our results for a particular period may be disproportionately impacted by declines in specific sectors of the economy due to our business mix and focus areas. For example: • We operate our investment banking business in eight equity focus sectors, which include alternative energy, business services, consumer, financial institutions, health care, industrial growth, media and telecommunications, and technology. In 2008, these sectors all experienced a downturn as the recession impacted almost all businesses, which materially adversely affected our business and results of operations. If the business environment for our focus sectors continues to suffer, impacts one or more sectors disproportionately as compared to the economy as a whole, or does not recover on pace with other sectors of the economy, our business and results of operations will be negatively impacted. 6 Table of Contents • Our international revenue is principally derived from our activities in Europe and Asia, and the global recession has had a significant negative impact on economic and market conditions in these areas of the world, which reduced our revenue from these activities. We expect the decline in economic and capital markets activity in Europe and Asia to persist in 2009, which will continue to materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. • Our fixed income activities are centered on public finance investment banking and municipal sales and trading within the higher education, housing, state and local government, healthcare, and hospitality sectors. Our high-yield and structured product activities specialize in the secondary sales and trading market for aircraft finance debt. Volatility and market conditions in these sectors during 2008, particularly with respect to the market for aircraft finance debt, materially adversely affected our results. Continued declines in these sectors and markets would have a further negative impact on our results of operations in 2009. For example, we participate in the market for low- or non-rated public finance investment banking transactions, and this market has been, and we expect it to continue to be, challenged by current market conditions. An increased inability to conduct transactions in this market in 2009 could have a significant negative impact on our business. Further, we do not participate in significant segments of the fixed income market and, as a result, our operating results in this area may not correlate with the results of other firms or the fixed income market generally. For example, one or more of these segments may recover during 2009 and we would not benefit from the recovery if we are not a participant in that segment. • A significant portion of our institutional sales and trading revenues is generated by hedge funds and related entities that have been negatively impacted by the current market environment. If a significant number of market participants that we serve as clients cease operations, a failure to replace this lost business could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, a relatively small number of institutional clients generate a meaningful portion of our institutional sales and trading revenues and our asset management revenues are derived from one key client. A failure to replace this business could also have a significant negative impact on our business. Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets. The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, exposing us to the increased risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In 2008, the market events affecting large investment banks created losses and uncertainty in several of our businesses. For example, we incurred losses following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, and the market’s perception of the liquidity position of other large investment banks affected the counterparty that supports our customer interest rate swap contracts, which exposed us to an increased risk of losses. Also, concerns about, or a default by, one institution generally leads to losses, significant liquidity problems, or defaults by other institutions, which in turn adversely affects our business. Particular activities or products within our business have exposed us to increasing credit risk, including interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposure, auction rate securities inventory positions, merchant banking investments (including bridge-loan financings), counterparty risk with a major financial institution related to customer interest rate swap contracts without customer credit exposure, investment banking and advisory fee receivables, customer margin accounts, and trading counterparty activities related to settlement and similar activities. With respect to interest rate swap contracts with customer exposure, we have counterparty credit exposure with six counterparties totaling $42.4 million at December 31, 2008. This counterparty credit exposure is part of our match-book derivative program that primarily consists of interest rate swaps. Of these six counterparties, one represents 49%, or $20.9 million in credit exposure as of December 31, 2008. This exposure is a result of credit market disruptions during the fourth quarter of 2008, which had a significant negative impact on the fair value of these interest rate swap contracts. The reduction in the fair value of the swap contracts increased the amount that would be payable to us in the event of a termination of the contract, and resulted in a corresponding increase in the amount that we would owe to our hedging counterparty. The amount we owe to our hedging counterparty is our exposure. Specifically, if the interest rate swap contracts for these six counterparties were to terminate at their current fair value, which we believe to be unlikely, it is possible that our counterparty would be unable to make its payment to us and we would still be obligated to pay our hedging counterparty an amount equal to our exposure. With respect to bridge loans, our credit exposure consisted of two financings totaling $19.8 million at December 31, 2008. One bridge loan totaling $11.9 million was in default as of December 31, 2008; however, we currently believe that the value of our secured collateral exceeds $11.9 million and have not recorded an impairment loss for this loan as of December 31, 2008. Non-performance by our counterparties, clients and others, including with respect to our interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposures and our bridge loan financings, could result in losses, potentially material, and thus have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our sales and trading, proprietary trading and underwriting businesses. We have committed capital to these businesses, and we may take substantial positions in particular types of securities and/or issuers. This concentration of risk may cause us to suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. Further, disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge exposures effectively and economically. We also experience concentration of risk in our role as remarketing agent and broker-dealer for certain types of securities, including in our role as remarketing agent for approximately $7.5 billion of variable rate demand notes. In an effort to facilitate liquidity, we may (but are not required to) increase our inventory positions in securities, exposing ourselves to greater concentration of risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions. Further, inventory positions that benefit from a liquidity provider, such as certain types of variable rate demand notes, may be adversely affected by an event that results in termination of the liquidity provider’s obligation, such as an insolvency or ratings downgrade of the monoline insurer. Further, the trend in capital markets in recent years has been toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms, and we were in the initial stages of increasing our activity in this regard before the recent economic decline. This concentration of risk has increased the potential for significant losses in our sales and trading, derivatives and underwriting areas, where we have committed capital and taken substantial positions in particular types of securities and/or issuers. As noted above, we have concentrated counterparty credit exposure with six counterparties totaling $42.4 million at December 31, 2008, as part of our match-book derivative program that primarily consists of interest rate swaps. Of these six counterparties, one represents 49%, or $20.9 million in credit exposure as of December 31, 2008. Our results of operations for a given period may be affected by the nature and scope of these activities, and such activities will subject us to market fluctuations and volatility that may adversely affect the value of our positions, which could result in significant losses and reduce our revenues and profits. An inability to access capital readily or on terms favorable to us could impair our ability to fund operations and could jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. Several large financial institutions failed or merged with others during 2008 as a result of the liquidity crisis that resulted from significant declines in asset values held by these institutions. To fund our business, we maintain a cash position and rely on bank financing as well as other funding sources such as the repurchase markets. The majority of our bank financing consists of uncommitted credit lines, which could become unavailable to us on relatively short notice. In 2008, we entered into a $250 million committed credit facility of which $125 million may only be drawn with specific municipal securities as collateral. Our access to our uncommitted funding sources could be hindered by many factors, and many of these factors we cannot control, such as economic downturns, the disruption of financial markets, the further failure or consolidation of other financial institutions, negative news about the financial industry generally or us specifically. We could experience further disruptions with our credit facilities in the future, including the loss of liquidity sources and/or increased borrowing costs, if lenders or investors develop a negative perception of our long-term or short- term financial prospects, which could result from further decreased business activity. Our liquidity also could be impacted by the activities resulting in concentration of risk, including proprietary activities from long-term investments and/or investments in specific markets or products without liquidity. Our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or if we discover that one of our employees has engaged in serious unauthorized or illegal activity. 8 Table of Contents In the future we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our working capital requirements, as well as to execute our growth initiatives that may include acquisitions and other investments. Also, we currently do not have a credit rating, which could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position by increasing our borrowing costs and limiting access to sources of liquidity that require a credit rating as a condition to providing funds. The financial services industry and the markets in which we operate are subject to systemic risk that could adversely affect our business and results. Participants in the financial services industry and markets increasingly are closely interrelated, for example as a result of credit, trading, clearing, technology and other relationships between them. A significant adverse development with one participant (such as a bankruptcy or default) will spread to others and lead to significant concentrated or market-wide problems (such as defaults, liquidity problems or losses) for other participants, including us. This systemic risk was evident during 2008 following the demise of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, and the resulting events (sometimes described as “contagion”) had a negative impact on the remaining industry participants, including us. As noted above, we incurred losses following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, and our counterparty risk with the financial institution that supports our customer interest rate swap activities increased as the contagion spread. Further, the control and risk management infrastructure of the markets in which we operate often is outpaced by financial innovation and growth in new types of securities, transactions and markets. Systemic risk is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and its form and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. An inability to readily divest or transfer trading positions may result in financial losses to our business. Timely divestiture or transfer of our trading positions, including equity, fixed income and other securities positions, can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, rapid changes in interest rates, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions and changes in industry and government regulations. This is true for both customer transactions that we facilitate as agent as well as proprietary trading positions that we maintain. While we hold a security, we are vulnerable to price and value fluctuations and may experience financial losses to the extent the value of the security decreases and we are unable to timely divest, hedge or transfer our trading position in that security. The value may decline as a result of many factors, including issuer-specific, market or geopolitical events. Changing market conditions also are increasing the risks associated with trading positions. For example, market dynamics in late 2007 and early 2008 reduced liquidity for positions in short-term fixed income products, particularly auction rate securities. In an effort to facilitate liquidity for these products, we voluntarily increased our inventory positions in these products, particularly auction rate securities, exposing ourselves to greater market risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions. Although we have significantly reduced our positions in auction rate securities during the year, we continue to hold $18 million of auction rate securities as of December 31, 2008. In addition, securities firms increasingly are committing to purchase large blocks of stock from issuers or significant shareholders, and block trades increasingly are being effected without an opportunity for us to pre-market the transaction, which increases the risk that we may be unable to resell the purchased securities at favorable prices. In addition, increasing reliance on revenues from hedge funds and hedge fund advisors, which are less regulated than many investment company and advisor clients, may expose us to greater risk of financial loss from unsettled trades than is the case with other types of institutional investors. Concentration of risk may result in losses to us even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in our industry. 9 Table of Contents The use of estimates and valuations in measuring fair value involve significant estimation and judgment by management. We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring fair value of certain financial instruments, accounting for goodwill and intangible assets, establishing provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax examinations, and valuing equity-based compensation awards. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, we reported a $127.1 million (after-tax) charge for impairment of goodwill related to our capital markets business, largely a legacy from the acquisition of Piper Jaffray by U.S. Bancorp in 1998 and $10.9 million (after-tax) of losses associated with aircraft structured products inventory and the remaining TOB municipal bond portfolio following consolidation of the program. With respect to goodwill, further deterioration in economic or market conditions during 2009 and beyond could result in additional impairment charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. With respect to measuring the fair value of certain financial instruments, trading securities owned, trading securities owned and pledged as collateral, and trading securities sold, but not yet purchased consist of financial instruments recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains and losses related to these financial instruments are reflected on our consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. These valuation techniques involve management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments’ complexity. For example, the valuation of our derivative positions requires significant estimation and judgment by management and therefore is subject to significant subjectivity. Further, the present market environment has caused even the markets for transferable instruments to become substantially more illiquid and difficult to value. We also expect valuation to be increasingly influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of recent SEC and FASB guidance on fair value accounting, issuer specific credit deteriorations and deferral and default rates, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposures by selling or hedging our exposures. Our future results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the valuation adjustments that we apply to these financial instruments. Risk management processes may not fully mitigate exposure to the various risks that we face, including market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, risk management techniques and strategies, both ours and those available to the market generally, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we might fail to identify or anticipate particular risks that our systems are capable of identifying, or the systems that we use, and that are used within the industry generally, may not be capable of identifying certain risks. Some of our strategies for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. 10 Table of Contents The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results. The completion of anticipated investment banking transactions in our pipeline is uncertain and beyond our control, and our investment banking revenue is typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction. In most cases we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. For example, a client’s acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s or counterparty’s business. During 2008, it was not uncommon for transactions to be delayed or terminated as a result of the adverse market conditions that were experienced. If the parties failed to complete a transaction on which we were advising or an offering in which we were participating, we earned little or no revenue from the transaction and may have incurred significant expenses (for example, travel and legal expenses) associated with the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties, and the number of engagements we have at any given time (and any characterization or description of our deal pipelines) is subject to change and may not necessarily result in future revenues. Financing and advisory services engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Even though we work to represent our clients at every stage of their lifecycle, we are typically retained on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions. In particular, our revenues related to acquisition and disposition transactions tend to be highly volatile and unpredictable or “lumpy” from quarter to quarter due to the one-time nature of the transaction and the size of the fee. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from the successful completion of those transactions, our business and results of operations will likely be adversely affected. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and operating results. Our business, by its nature, does not produce steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which causes fluctuations in our stock price that may be significant. During 2008, our stock price was negatively impacted by lower revenues, operating losses and negative investor sentiment affecting stock prices of the financial services industry as a whole. Other factors that have affected, and may further affect, our stock price include changes in or news related to economic or market events or conditions, changes in market conditions in the financial services industry, including the impact of recent concerns regarding the possible nationalization of certain prominent financial institutions, developments in regulation affecting our business, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts and changes in recommendations or outlooks by market analysts. During 2008, the stock price of many financial services companies was adversely affected by aggressive short selling, resulting in the issuance of an emergency order by the SEC on September 18, 2008 that prohibited short sales in the stock of numerous financial services companies, including ours. This emergency order has now expired, and our stock price may be negatively impacted in future periods by aggressive short selling in our stock. We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies in the financial services industry who often have significantly greater resources that we do. Despite the negative events impacting the industry in 2008, the financial services industry remains extremely competitive, and our revenues and profitability will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. We compete generally on the basis of such factors as quality of advice and service, reputation, price, product selection, transaction execution and financial resources. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues. In addition, we could experience increased pricing pressure from clients in this difficult market environment as clients look for ways to reduce costs, which would be exacerbated by increased competition for the relatively small number of transactions occurring in the current market. 11 Table of Contents We also remain at a competitive disadvantage given our relatively small size compared to some of our competitors. Large financial services firms have a larger capital base, greater access to capital and greater resources than we have, affording them greater capacity for risk and potential for innovation, an extended geographic reach and flexibility to offer a broader set of products. For example, these firms have used their resources and larger capital base to take advantage of growth in international markets and to support their investment banking business by offering credit products to corporate clients, which is a significant competitive advantage. With respect to our Fixed Income Services and Public Finance Services businesses, it is more difficult for us to diversify and differentiate our product set, and our fixed income business mix currently is concentrated in traditional categories, potentially with less opportunity for growth than other firms who have grown their fixed income businesses by investing in, developing and offering non-traditional products. Recently, two large investment banks have obtained approval to become bank holding companies with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, which will provide these institutions with additional sources of liquidity from the federal government and additional capital consisting of insured bank deposits. Because we are smaller, the additional regulatory burdens and potential restrictions on our business limit the feasibility of becoming a bank holding company, which may be a competitive disadvantage in the current market. Our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees is critical to the success of our business. Historically, the market for qualified employees within the financial services industry has been marked by intense competition, and the performance of our business may suffer to the extent we are unable to attract and retain employees effectively, particularly given the relatively small size of our company and our employee base compared to some of our competitors and the geographic locations in which we operate. The primary sources of revenue in each of our business lines are commissions and fees earned on advisory and underwriting transactions and customer accounts managed by our employees, who have historically been recruited by other firms and in certain cases are able to take their client relationships with them when they change firms. Some specialized areas of our business are operated by a relatively small number of employees, the loss of any of whom could jeopardize the continuation of that business following the employee’s departure. Further, the difficult operating environment in 2008 caused us to significantly reduce our incentive compensation, to minimize the fixed component of our compensation costs and to reduce the number of employees across nearly all of our businesses. We also have paid a substantial portion of our annual bonus compensation in recent years in the form of equity, which declined in value during 2008 as the market price of our common stock declined. These actions and events may result in the loss of some of our professionals or the inability to recruit additional professionals at compensation levels that are within our target range for compensation and benefits expense. Going forward, our ability to retain and recruit also may be hindered if we limit our aggregate annual compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of annual net revenues. Our underwriting and market-making activities may place our capital at risk. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. As a market maker, we may own large positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. We enter into off-balance sheet arrangements that may be required to be consolidated on our financial statements based on future events outside of our control, including changes in complex accounting standards. In the normal course of our business, we enter into various transactions with special purpose entities (“SPEs”) that we do not consolidate onto our balance sheet, typically because we do not have a controlling financial interest as defined under applicable accounting standards. The assessment of whether the accounting criteria for consolidation of an SPE are met requires management to exercise significant judgment. If certain events occur that require us to re-assess our initial determination of non-consolidation or if our judgment of non-consolidation is in error, we could be required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of an SPE onto our consolidated balance sheet and recognize its future gains or losses in our consolidated statement of income. For example, certain events during 2008 caused us to consolidate our tender option bond (“TOB”) program at the conclusion of the third quarter, which was our primary involvement with SPEs. The TOB program securitized approximately $300 million of municipal bonds through the sale of the bonds into an SPE. We determined that our TOB program no longer qualified for off- balance sheet accounting treatment because we believed that we would have material involvement with the SPEs under the reimbursement obligation to the third-party financial institution that acted as the liquidity provider for the TOB program. This material involvement resulted from volatility in the credit markets that caused a decline in the market value of municipal securities. As a result, we consolidated $258.2 million of municipal bonds held in off-balance sheet trusts established under the TOB program onto our balance sheet, resulting in a loss of $21.7 million in the third quarter of 2008. Other than the discontinued TOB program, our involvement with SPEs typically involves partnerships or limited liability companies, established for the purpose of investing in private or public equity securities or various partnership entities. For reasons outside of our control, including changes in existing accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, the risk of consolidation of these SPEs could increase. Further consolidation would affect the size of our consolidated balance sheet and related funding requirements, and if the SPE’s assets include unrealized losses, could require us to recognize additional losses. 12 Table of Contents Use of derivative instruments as part of our risk management techniques may not effectively hedge the risks associated with activities in certain of our businesses. We may use futures, options, swaps or other securities to hedge inventory. For example, our fixed income business provides swaps and other interest rate hedging products to public finance clients, which our company in turn hedges through a counterparty. In addition, our fixed income business managed a portfolio of interest rate swaps that hedged the residual cash flows resulting from our TOB program. There are risks inherent in our use of these products, including counterparty exposure and basis risk. Counterparty exposure refers to the risk that the amount of collateral in our possession on any given day may not be sufficient to fully cover the current value of the swaps if a counterparty were to suddenly default. Basis risk refers to risks associated with swaps where changes in the value of the swaps may not exactly mirror changes in the value of the cash flows they are hedging. In the fourth quarter of 2008, our operating results were negatively impacted by the portfolio of interest rate swaps that hedged our discontinued TOB program, after volatility in the credit markets caused a dislocation between the hedging swaps and the value of the cash flows associated with the TOB program. Going forward, it is possible that we may incur additional losses from our remaining exposure to derivative and interest rate hedging products and the increased use of these products in the future. For example, the derivative instruments that we use to hedge the risks associated with interest rate swap contracts with public finance clients where we have retained the credit risk also were impacted by the recent volatility. If these interest rate swap contracts are terminated as a result of a client credit event, we may incur losses if we make a payment to our hedging counterparty without recovering any amounts from our client. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and a significant regulatory action against our company may have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to our company. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to complex and extensive regulation of many aspects of our business by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies, self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges) and by foreign governmental agencies, regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Specifically, our operating subsidiaries include broker dealer and related securities entities organized in the United States, the United Kingdom and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”). Each of these entities is registered or licensed with the applicable local securities regulator and is a member of or participant in one or more local securities exchanges and is subject to all of the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by those authorities. We also maintain a representative office in the PRC, and this office is registered with the PRC securities regulator and subject to applicable rules and regulations of the PRC. Generally, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. These requirements are not designed to protect our shareholders. Consequently, broker-dealer regulations often serve to limit our activities, through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements and restrictions on the businesses in which we may operate or invest. In addition, we must comply with asset management regulations, including customer disclosures to protect investors. Compliance with many of these regulations entails a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be newer or unclear. In addition, regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business may intervene in our business and we and our employees could be fined or otherwise disciplined for violations or prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. Over the last several years we have expanded our international operations, including through the expansion of our European-based business located in the United Kingdom and the acquisition of Asia-based Goldbond Capital Holdings Ltd. Each of these businesses has subjected us to a unique set of regulations, including regarding capital adequacy, customer protection and business conduct, which has required us to devote increasing resources to our compliance efforts and exposed us to additional regulatory risk in each of these jurisdictions. In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most recently, governments in the U.S. and abroad have intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. These events have in turn led to proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry, such proposals are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and around the world. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the U.S. and rules to more closely regulate derivative transactions, are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business also subjects us to the complex income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we have business operations, and these tax laws may be subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes. We are subject to contingent tax risk that could adversely affect our results of operations, to the extent that our interpretations of tax laws are disputed upon examination or audit, and are settled in amounts in excess of established reserves for such contingencies. The effort to combat money laundering also has become a high priority in governmental policy with respect to financial institutions. The obligation of financial institutions, including ourselves, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs. Any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to serious regulatory consequences, including substantial fines, and potentially other liabilities. 13 Table of Contents Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and could lead to substantial damages. We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include potential liability under securities laws and regulations in connection with our investment banking and other securities transactions. The volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation, arbitrations, regulatory enforcement actions and other adversarial proceedings against financial services firms have increased in recent years. Our experience has been that adversarial proceedings against financial services firms typically increase during a market downturn. We also are subject to claims from disputes with our employees and our former employees under various circumstances. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time, making the amount of legal reserves related to these legal liabilities difficult to determine and subject to future revision. Legal or regulatory matters involving our directors, officers or employees in their individual capacities also may create exposure for us because we may be obligated or may choose to indemnify the affected individuals against liabilities and expenses they incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. In addition, like other financial services companies, we may face the possibility of employee fraud or misconduct. The precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases and we cannot assure you that we will be able to deter or prevent fraud or misconduct. Exposures from and expenses incurred related to any of the foregoing actions or proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future results of operations could be adversely affected if reserves relating to these legal liabilities are required to be increased or legal proceedings are resolved in excess of established reserves. We have experienced significant pricing pressure in areas of our business, which may impair our revenues and profitability. In recent years we have experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in equity and fixed income trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. The trend toward using alternative trading systems is continuing to grow, which may result in decreased commission and trading revenue, reduce our participation in the trading markets and our ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. Institutional clients also have pressured financial services firms to alter “soft dollar” practices under which brokerage firms bundle the cost of trade execution with research products and services. Some institutions are entering into arrangements that separate (or “unbundle”) payments for research products or services from sales commissions. These arrangements have increased the competitive pressures on sales commissions and have affected the value our clients place on high-quality research. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of our business. Moreover, our inability to reach agreement regarding the terms of unbundling arrangements with institutional clients who are actively seeking such arrangements could result in the loss of those clients, which would likely reduce our institutional commissions. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. We also could experience increased pricing pressure from clients in this difficult market environment as clients look for ways to reduce costs, which will be exacerbated by increased competition for the relatively small number of transactions occurring in the current market. In addition, we expect the equity sales and trading market to be negatively impacted by reduced market values and asset levels, reduced commissions resulting from these declines, lower volume levels as volatility declines, and a reduction in the number of market participants, particularly hedge funds. These factors will have a negative impact on our institutional sales and trading business that could be material. We may make strategic acquisitions and minority investments, engage in joint ventures or divest or exit existing businesses, which could cause us to incur unforeseen expense and have disruptive effects on our business but may not yield the benefits we expect. We expect to grow in part through corporate development activities that include acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. For example, we expanded our business into Asia through the acquisition of Goldbond Capital Holdings Ltd., and into asset management through the acquisition of FAMCO. These corporate development activities, and our future corporate development activities, are accompanied by a number of risks. Costs or difficulties relating to a transaction, including integration of products, employees, technology systems, accounting systems and management controls, may be difficult to predict accurately and be greater than expected causing our estimates to differ from actual results. We may be unable to retain key personnel after the transaction, and the transaction may impair relationships with customers and business partners. Also, our share price could decline after we announce or complete a transaction if investors view the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. Longer-term, these activities require increased investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which, in the absence of continued revenue growth, would cause our operating margins to decline. More generally, any difficulties that we experience could disrupt our ongoing business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We also may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits and synergies from the transaction as fully as expected or within the expected time frame. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or products could have similar effects. 14 Table of Contents To the extent that we pursue corporate development activities outside of the United States, including acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country. These risks include possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure (for example, joint ventures) might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. Our technology systems, including outsourced systems, are critical components of our operations, and failure of those systems or other aspects of our operations infrastructure may disrupt our business, cause financial loss and constrain our growth. We typically transact thousands of securities trades on a daily basis across multiple markets. Our data and transaction processing, financial, accounting and other technology and operating systems are essential to this task. A system malfunction or mistake made relating to the processing of transactions could result in financial loss, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, reputational damage and constraints on our ability to grow. We outsource a substantial portion of our critical data processing activities, including trade processing and back office data processing. For example, we have entered into contracts with Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. pursuant to which Broadridge handles our trade and back office processing, and Unisys Corporation, pursuant to which Unisys supports our data center and network management technology needs. We also contract with third parties for our market data services, which constantly broadcast news, quotes, analytics and other relevant information to our employees. We contract with other vendors to produce and mail our customer statements and to provide other services. In the event that any of these service providers fails to adequately perform such services or the relationship between that service provider and us is terminated, we may experience a significant disruption in our operations, including our ability to timely and accurately process transactions or maintain complete and accurate records of those transactions. Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs and industry demands also is critical for our business. Introduction of new technologies present new challenges on a regular basis. We have an ongoing need to upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data and transaction processing, financial, accounting and trading systems. This need could present operational issues or require significant capital spending. It also may require us to make additional investments in technology systems and may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks also is critically important to our business. We take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant. However, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, inadvertent, erroneous or intercepted transmission of information (including by e-mail), and other events that could have an information security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. A disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business due to fire, natural disaster, health emergency (for example, a disease pandemic), power or communication failure, act of terrorism or war may affect our ability to service and interact with our clients. If we are not able to implement contingency plans effectively, any such disruption could harm our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Asset management revenue may vary based on investment performance and market and economic factors. As a result of our acquisition of FAMCO in the third quarter of 2007, we significantly expanded our asset management business. Our revenues from this business are primarily derived from management fees which are based on assets under management. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors’ perception of our past performance, market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers and our ability to negotiate terms with major investors. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new asset management business. Poor investment performance, such as the investment performance experienced in 2008, and other competitive factors could reduce our revenues and impair our growth in many ways: existing clients may withdraw funds from our asset management business in favor of better performing products or a different investment style or focus; our capital investments in our investment funds or the seed capital we have committed to new asset management products may diminish in value or may be lost; and our key employees in the business may depart, whether to join a competitor or otherwise. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, our asset management revenues will likely be reduced and our ability to raise new funds will likely be impaired. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by our investment style and the particular investments that we make. Further, our asset management business depends in part on a key client, and the loss of this client would have an adverse affect on our asset management revenues. In addition, over the past several years, the size and number of investment funds, including exchange-traded funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, has continued to increase. If this trend continues, it is possible that it will become increasingly difficult for us to raise capital for new investment funds or price competition may mean that we are unable to maintain our current fee structure. The business operations that we conduct outside of the United States subject us to unique risks. To the extent we conduct business outside the United States, for example in Europe and Asia, we are subject to risks including, without limitation, the risk that we will be unable to provide effective operational support to these business activities, the risk of non-compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and the general economic and political conditions in countries where we conduct business, which may differ significantly from those in the United States. In addition, we may experience currency risk as foreign exchange rates fluctuate in a manner that negatively impacts the value of non-U.S. dollar assets, revenues and expenses. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. We may suffer losses if our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be diminished to the extent our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or are perceived to fail, to address various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with market dynamics (such as the current credit crisis), potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, customer privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products and services. Failure to appropriately address these issues could give rise to loss of existing or future business, financial loss, and legal or regulatory liability, including complaints, claims and enforcement proceedings against us, which could, in turn, subject us to fines, judgments and other penalties. Regulatory capital requirements may limit our ability to expand or maintain present levels of our business or impair our ability to meet our financial obligations. We are subject to the SEC’s uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of FINRA, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from Piper Jaffray & Co., our broker dealer subsidiary. The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. FINRA may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. In addition, Piper Jaffray Ltd., our London-based broker dealer subsidiary, and Piper Jaffray Asia, our Hong Kong-based broker dealer subsidiary, are subject to similar limitations under applicable laws in those jurisdictions. 16 Table of Contents As Piper Jaffray Companies is a holding company, we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund all payments on our obligations, including any share repurchases that we may make. These regulatory restrictions may impede access to funds our holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. In addition, underwriting commitments require a charge against net capital and, accordingly, our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that we must at all times be in compliance with the applicable net capital regulations. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter abusive takeover tactics by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include limitations on actions by our shareholders by written consent and a rights plan that gives our board of directors the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquiror. Previously, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also included provisions for a classified board of directors, but our shareholders approved the elimination of the classified structure at our 2007 annual meeting, resulting in the annual election of all directors in 2010. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. In connection with our spin-off from U.S. Bancorp we adopted a rights agreement, which would impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our board of directors. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 