Risk Factors 23. The price of the Company’s shares is volatile. Publicly quoted securities are subject to a relatively high degree of price volatility. It may be anticipated that the quoted market for the shares of the Company will be subject to market trends generally, notwithstanding any potential success of the Company in creating sales and revenues. 24. There is an absence of a liquid trading market for the Company’s shares. Shareholders of the Company may be unable to sell significant quantities of shares into the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of their shares, if at all. The Company may not continue to meet the listing requirements of the Exchange or achieve listing on any other public listing exchange. 25. The Penny-Stock Rule may limit trading in the Company’s shares. In October 1990, Congress enacted the “Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990.” “Penny Stock” is generally any equity security other than a security (a) that is registered or approved for registration and traded on a national securities exchange or an equity security for which quotation information is disseminated by The National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (“NASDAQ”) System on a real-time basis pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan, or which has been authorized or approved for authorization upon notice of issuance for quotation in the NASDAQ System, (b) that is issued by an investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, (c) that is a put or call option issued by Options Clearing Corporation, (d) that has a price of five dollars (US) or more, or (e) whose issuer has net tangible assets in excess of $2,000,000(US), if the issuer has been in continuous operation for at least three years, or $5,000,000(US) if the issuer has been in continuous operation for less than three years, or average revenue of at least $6,000,000(US) for the last three years. The Company’s Common Shares are presently considered “penny stock” under these criteria. Therefore, the Common Shares are subject to Rules 15g-2 through 15g-9 (the “Penny Stock Rules”) under the Exchange Act. The “penny stock” trading rules impose duties and responsibilities upon broker-dealers and salespersons effecting purchase and sale transactions in the Company’s shares, including determination of the purchaser’s investment suitability, delivery of certain information and disclosures to the purchaser, and receipt of a specific purchase agreement from the purchaser prior to effecting the purchase transaction. Compliance with the “penny stock” trading rules affect or will affect the ability to resell the Company’s - 14 - shares by a holder principally because of the additional duties and responsibilities imposed upon the broker-dealers and salespersons recommending and effecting sale and purchase transactions in such securities. In addition, many broker-dealers will not effect transactions in penny stocks, except on an unsolicited basis, in order to avoid compliance with the “penny stock” trading rules. Consequently, the “penny stock” trading rules may materially limit or restrict the number of potential purchasers of the Company’s shares and the ability of a holder to resell our stock. So long as the Common Shares are within the definition of “Penny Stock” as defined in Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act, the Penny Stock Rules will continue to be applicable to the Common Shares. Unless and until the price per share of Common Shares is equal to or greater than $5.00(US), or an exemption from the rule is otherwise available, the Common Shares may be subject to substantial additional risk disclosures and document and information delivery requirements on the part of brokers and dealers effecting transactions in the Common Shares. Such additional risk disclosures and document and information delivery requirements on the part of such brokers and dealers may have an adverse effect on the market for and/or valuation of the Common Shares. 26. Classification as a Passive Foreign Investment Company has adverse income tax consequences for United States shareholders. The Company believes it is a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”), as that term is defined in Section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and believes it will be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. Consequently, this classification will result in adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders of the Company’s shares. For an explanation of these effects on taxation, see Item 10. Additional Information – United States Federal Income Tax Consequences. U.S. shareholders and prospective holders of the Company’s shares are also encouraged to consult their own tax advisers. 27. The Company and its principals and assets are located outside of the United States which makes it difficult to effect service of process or enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against the Company or its officers or directors. Substantially all of the Company’s assets are located outside of the United States and the Company does not currently maintain a permanent place of business within the United States. In addition, most of the directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process or enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against the Company or its officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the Unit ed States or any state thereof. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Canada, Mexico and other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against the Company or its directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Canada, Mexico or other jurisdictions against the Company or its directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Further, any payments as a result of judgments obtained in Mexico should be in pesos and service of process in Mexico must be effectuated personally and not by mail. 