ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Developments in market and economic conditions have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability. Economic and market conditions have had, and will continue to have, a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition because performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity. For example: • Our investment banking revenue, in the form of underwriting, placement and financial advisory fees from equity, acquisition and disposition, and public finance transactions, is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions as well as our role in these transactions. During the first half of 2010, uncertainty regarding the strength of the global economic recovery led to broad-based market declines and volatility that negatively impacted U.S. capital-raising, particularly for initial public offerings and growth sectors in which we participate. The reduction in capital-raising negatively impacted our equities investment banking revenue as fewer transactions were completed and the size of the transactions were reduced. If similar 7 Table of Contents market dynamics occur in 2011, there would likely be a similar impact on our equities investment banking business as capital-raising activity declined. • Our Public Finance Services and Fixed Income Services businesses were negatively impacted in 2010 by the uncertainties and volatility related to concerns over municipal-issuer credit quality, treasury rates, and the extension of the Build America Bonds program. In 2011, state and local governments may continue to struggle with budget pressures caused by the recent recession, and concerns regarding municipal-issuer credit quality may persist. These investor concerns could potentially reduce the volume and size of public finance transactions during 2011 and negatively impact our public finance investment banking business. We also expect that the interest rate volatility experienced in 2010 may continue into 2011, which together with municipal market uncertainty and volatility may negatively impact our fixed income institutional brokerage business. Changes in interest rates (especially if the changes are rapid and severe) or uncertainty regarding the future direction of interest rates may reduce customer activity and may also negatively impact the value of our fixed income securities inventories and the effectiveness of our related hedging strategies. • A decline in the financial markets will reduce asset valuations and adversely impact our asset management business. A reduction in asset values would negatively impact this business by reducing the value of assets under management, and as a result, the revenues associated with this business. In addition, we could experience a reduction in the inflow of assets under management or an increase of outflows during times of market declines, which would adversely impact this business. • Our Equities business could be negatively impacted from declining market values and asset levels, which will reduce commission revenue. Also, if the market trends downward or remains flat, this reduced volatility will negatively impact the business as volume levels decline with volatility. A decline in institutional and trading revenue as a result of these factors would have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. It is difficult to predict the market conditions for 2011, which are dependent in large part upon the pace and consistency of the global economic recovery now underway. Our operating size and the cyclical nature of the economy and this industry leads to volatility in our financial results, including our operating margins, compensation ratios and revenue and expense levels. Our financial performance may be limited by the fixed nature of certain expenses, the impact from unanticipated losses or expenses during the year, and the inability to scale back costs in a timeframe to match decreases in revenue-related changes in market and economic conditions. As a result, our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year. Developments in specific sectors of the economy have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability. Our results for a particular period may be disproportionately impacted by declines in specific sectors of the economy due to our business mix and focus areas. For example: • Our Fixed Income Services business derives its revenue primarily from sales and trading activity in the municipal market and to a lesser extent from corporate credits and structured products within the taxable market. During 2010, we experienced a less favorable municipal trading environment due to concerns over credit quality for municipal issuers, volatility in interest rates, in particular treasury rates, and uncertainties surrounding the extension of the Build America Bonds program. Challenges in the municipal trading environment have continued into 2011 as concerns over municipal-issuer credit quality persist, and these market conditions may negatively impact our results of operations in this area, potentially materially. As an example, our proprietary trading activities in the municipal market have generated significant revenue in both 2010 and 2009, and an inability to predict municipal market conditions or take advantage of the existing trading environment would negatively impact this business and our results of operations generally. Also, our operating results for this business may not correlate with the results of other firms or the fixed income market generally because we do not participate in significant segments of the fixed income markets (e.g., credit default swaps, interest rate products and currencies and commodities). 8 Table of Contents • Similar to our Fixed Income Services business, our Public Finance Services business depends heavily upon conditions in the municipal market. Our ability to effect investment banking transactions in the state and local government sectors has been, and will continue to be, challenged by concerns of municipal-issuer credit quality. In addition, our public finance business focuses on investment banking activity in sectors that include higher education, housing, healthcare, and hospitality sectors, with an emphasis on transactions with a par value of $500 million or less. Challenging market conditions for these sectors that are disproportionately worse than those impacting the broader economy or municipal markets generally may adversely impact our business. As an example, we have historically participated in the market for low- or non-rated public finance investment banking transactions, and this market continues to experience a slow recovery following the credit crisis of 2008. • The global recession had a significant negative impact on economic and market conditions in Europe and Asia, which reduced our revenue from international operations. With respect to Europe, the equity capital raising environment for European-based middle market companies remained depressed throughout 2010, particularly in biotechnology, our primary specialty focus. As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we exited the origination and distribution of European securities and shifted the focus of our European operations to the distribution of U.S. and Asia securities to European institutional investors and merger and acquisition advisory services. As part of this strategy, we will invest further in our Asia operations, focusing in particular on activities in China, and this investment in the Asian market will expose us to a greater degree to the economic and market conditions in this geographic region as well as other unique risks associated with Asia-based operations. • Volatility or uncertainty in the business environment for clean technology and renewables, business services, consumer, financial institutions, healthcare, industrial growth, and media, telecommunications and technology, including but not limited to challenging market conditions for these sectors that are disproportionately worse than those impacting the economy and markets generally or downturns in these sectors that are independent of general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect our business. Further, we may not participate or may participate to a lesser degree than other firms in sectors that experience significant activity, such as depository financial institutions, energy and mining, and industrials, and our operating results many not correlate with the results of other firms who participate in these sectors. We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies in the financial services industry who often have significantly greater resources than we do. The financial services industry remains extremely competitive, and our revenues and profitability will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. An inability to effectively compete will also have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our five-year strategic growth priorities, which include significant revenue growth for our corporate advisory and public finance businesses, expansion of our Asia-based business and growth in our asset management business. We compete generally on the basis of such factors as quality of advice and service, reputation, price, product selection, transaction execution and financial resources. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues. We remain at a competitive disadvantage given our relatively small size compared to some of our competitors. Large financial services firms have a larger capital base, greater access to capital and greater resources than we have, affording them greater capacity for risk and potential for innovation, an extended geographic reach and flexibility to offer a broader set of products. For example, these firms have used their resources and larger capital base to take advantage of growth in international markets and to support their investment banking business by offering credit products to corporate clients, which is a significant competitive advantage. With respect to our Fixed Income Services and Public Finance Services businesses, it is more difficult for us to diversify and differentiate our product set, and our fixed income business mix currently is concentrated in the municipal market and to a lesser extent corporate credits and structured products, potentially with less opportunity for growth than other firms who have grown their fixed income businesses by investing in, developing and offering non-traditional products (e.g., credit default swaps, interest rate products and currencies and commodities). 9 Table of Contents The business operations that we conduct outside of the United States subject us to unique risks. To the extent we conduct business outside the United States, for example in Asia and to a lesser extent Europe, we are subject to risks including, without limitation, the risk that we will be unable to provide effective operational support to these business activities, the risk of non-compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and the general economic and political conditions in countries where we conduct business, which may differ significantly from those in the United States. In 2010, we restructured our international operations and exited origination and distribution of European securities and announced our intention to further invest in our Asia operations, particularly China. This increased focus on Asia, particularly China, will increase our exposure to these risks associated with international operations. Further, the capital markets in Asia are emerging and less developed than those of the U.S. or Europe and many Asia-based issuer companies seeking to raise capital are less mature than may be the case in the U.S. or Europe and may have a higher risk profile, potentially exposing us to greater underwriting and other risk in our global equity capital markets business. In addition, we may experience currency risk as foreign exchange rates fluctuate in a manner that negatively impacts the value of non-U.S. dollar assets, revenues and expenses. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets. The amount and duration of our credit exposures has been volatile over the past several years. This exposes us to the increased risk that third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Also, concerns about, or a default by, one institution generally leads to losses, significant liquidity problems, or defaults by other institutions, which in turn adversely affects our business. Particular activities or products within our business have exposed us to increasing credit risk, including inventory positions, interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposure, merchant banking debt investments, counterparty risk with two major financial institutions related to customer interest rate swap contracts without customer credit exposure, investment banking and advisory fee receivables, customer margin accounts, and trading counterparty activities related to settlement and similar activities. With respect to interest rate swap contracts with customer exposure, we have credit exposure with six counterparties totaling $22.0 million at December 31, 2010 as part of our matched-book interest rate swap program. Unfavorable changes in interest rates in 2011 could increase our exposure. For example, a decrease in interest rates would increase the amount that would be payable to us in the event of a termination of the contract, and result in a corresponding increase in the amount that we would owe to our hedging counterparty. If our counterparty is unable to make its payment to us, we would still be obligated to pay our hedging counterparty, resulting in credit losses. With respect to merchant banking investments, we have two debt investments totaling $11.7 million as of December 31, 2010. Non-performance by our counterparties, clients and others, including with respect to our inventory positions, interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposures and our merchant banking debt investments could result in losses, potentially material, and thus have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to, changes in our revenues and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and 10 Table of Contents operating results. Our business, by its nature, does not produce steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which causes fluctuations in our stock price that may be significant. Other factors that have affected, and may further affect, our stock price include changes in or news related to economic or market events or conditions, changes in market conditions in the financial services industry, including developments in regulation affecting our business, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts, changes in recommendations or outlooks by market analysts, and aggressive short selling similar to that experienced in the financial industry in 2008. The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results. The completion of anticipated investment banking transactions in our pipeline is uncertain and beyond our control, and our investment banking revenue is typically earned only upon the successful completion of a transaction. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. For example, a client’s acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s or counterparty’s business. If parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we earn little or no revenue from the transaction and may have incurred significant expenses (for example, travel and legal expenses) associated with the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties, and the number of engagements we have at any given time (and any characterization or description of our deal pipelines) is subject to change and may not necessarily result in future revenues. An inability to access capital readily or on terms favorable to us could impair our ability to fund operations and could jeopardize our financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. Several large financial institutions failed or merged with others during the credit crisis following significant declines in asset values in securities held by these institutions. To fund our business, we maintain a cash position and rely on bank financing as well as other funding sources such as the repurchase markets. The majority of our bank financing consists of uncommitted credit lines, which could become unavailable to us on relatively short notice. Our committed facilities include a $250 million committed credit facility that was renewed for the second consecutive year as well as a new three-year credit facility entered into at the end of 2010. The three-year facility refinanced $120 million of unsecured variable rate senior notes related to the acquisition of ARI, and consists of term loans in the aggregate amount of $100 million and a $50 million revolving credit facility that the Company may draw upon at its discretion. In addition to our committed credit facility and in order to diversify our short-term funding needs, we also continue to maintain our $300 million commercial paper program. Our access to funding sources, particularly uncommitted funding sources, could be hindered by many factors, and many of these factors we cannot control, such as economic downturns, the disruption of financial markets, the failure or consolidation of other financial institutions, negative news about the financial industry generally or us specifically. We could experience disruptions with our credit facilities in the future, including the loss of liquidity sources and/or increased borrowing costs, if lenders or investors develop a negative perception of our short- or long-term financial prospects, which could result from decreased business activity. Our liquidity also could be impacted by the activities resulting in concentration of risk, including proprietary activities from long-term investments and/or investments in specific markets or products without liquidity. Our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or if we discover that one of our employees has engaged in serious unauthorized or illegal activity. In the future, we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our working capital requirements, as well as to execute our growth initiatives that may include acquisitions and other investments. For example, we issued $120 million of unsecured variable rate senior notes to help fund the acquisition of ARI, which has been refinanced with a new three-year credit facility as described above. Similarly, our access to funding sources may be contingent upon terms and conditions that may limit or restrict our business activities and growth initiatives. For example, the three-year credit facility includes covenants that, among other things, limit our leverage ratio, require 11 Table of Contents maintenance of certain levels of cash and regulatory net capital, require our asset management segment to achieve minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and impose certain limitations on our ability to make acquisitions and make payments on our capital stock. Lastly, we currently do not have a credit rating, which could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position by increasing our borrowing costs and limiting access to sources of liquidity that require a credit rating as a condition to providing funds. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our sales and trading, proprietary trading, merchant banking investments and underwriting businesses. We have committed capital to these businesses, and we may take substantial positions in particular types of securities and/or issuers. This concentration of risk may cause us to suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. Further, disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge exposures effectively and economically. We also experience concentration of risk in our role as remarketing agent and broker dealer for certain types of securities, including in our role as remarketing agent for approximately $5.6 billion of variable rate demand notes. In an effort to facilitate liquidity, we may (but are not required to) increase our inventory positions in securities, exposing ourselves to greater concentration of risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions. Further, inventory positions that benefit from a liquidity provider, such as certain types of variable rate demand notes, may be adversely affected by an event that results in termination of the liquidity provider’s obligation, such as an insolvency or ratings downgrade of the monoline insurer. In recent years, financial services firms have also moved toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital, which has increased the potential for significant losses in our sales and trading and underwriting activities, where we have committed capital and taken substantial positions in particular types of securities and/or issuers. Our results of operations for a given period may be affected by the nature and scope of these activities and such activities will subject us to market fluctuations and volatility that may adversely affect the value of our positions, which could result in significant losses and reduce our revenues and profits. An inability to readily divest or transfer trading positions may result in financial losses to our business. Timely divestiture or transfer of our trading positions, including equity, fixed income and other securities positions, can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, rapid changes in interest rates, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions and changes in industry and government regulations. This is true for both customer transactions that we facilitate as agent as well as proprietary trading positions that we maintain. While we hold a security, we are vulnerable to price and value fluctuations and may experience financial losses to the extent the value of the security decreases and we are unable to timely divest, hedge or transfer our trading position in that security. The value may decline as a result of many factors, including issuer-specific, market or geopolitical events. In addition, in times of market uncertainty, the inability to transfer inventory positions may have an impact on our liquidity as funding sources generally decline and we are unable to pledge the underlying security as collateral. Our liquidity may also be impacted if we choose to facilitate liquidity for specific products and voluntarily increase our inventory positions in order to do so, exposing ourselves to greater market risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions. In addition, securities firms increasingly are committing to purchase large blocks of stock from issuers or significant shareholders, and block trades increasingly are being effected without an opportunity for us to pre-market the transaction, which increases the risk that we may be unable to resell the purchased securities at favorable prices. In addition, reliance on revenues from hedge funds and hedge fund advisors, which are less regulated than many investment company and advisor clients, may expose us to greater risk of financial loss from unsettled trades than is the case with other types of institutional investors. Concentration of risk may result in losses to us even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in our industry. 12 Table of Contents The financial services industry and the markets in which we operate are subject to systemic risk that could adversely affect our business and results. Participants in the financial services industry and markets increasingly are closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, technology and other relationships between them. A significant adverse development with one participant (such as a bankruptcy or default) may spread to others and lead to significant concentrated or market-wide problems (such as defaults, liquidity problems or losses) for other participants, including us. This systemic risk was evident during 2008 following the demise of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, and the resulting events (sometimes described as “contagion”) had a negative impact on the remaining industry participants, including us. Further, the control and risk management infrastructure of the markets in which we operate often is outpaced by financial innovation and growth in new types of securities, transactions and markets. Systemic risk is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and its form and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. The use of estimates and valuations in measuring fair value involve significant estimation and judgment by management. We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring fair value of certain financial instruments, accounting for goodwill and intangible assets, establishing provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation, regulatory proceedings and tax examinations, and valuing equity-based compensation awards. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. An unsustainable economic recovery leading to a renewed deterioration in economic or market conditions could result in impairment charges, similar to those experienced in 2008, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Certain financial instruments, including trading securities owned, trading securities owned and pledged as collateral, and trading securities sold but not yet purchased, are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains and losses related to these financial instruments are reflected on our consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. These valuation techniques involve management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments’ complexity. Difficult market environments, such as those experienced in 2008, may cause transferable instruments to become substantially more illiquid and difficult to value, increasing the use of valuation models. We also expect valuation to be increasingly influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of SEC and FASB guidance on fair value accounting, issuer specific credit deteriorations and deferral and default rates, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. Our future results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the valuation adjustments that we apply to these financial instruments. Risk management processes may not fully mitigate exposure to the various risks that we face, including market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, risk management techniques and strategies, both ours and those available to the market generally, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we might fail to identify or anticipate particular risks that our systems are capable of identifying, or the systems that we use, and that are used within the industry generally, may not be capable of identifying certain risks. Some of our strategies for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. 13 Table of Contents Financing and advisory services engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Even though we work to represent our clients at every stage of their lifecycle, we are typically retained on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions. In particular, our revenues related to acquisition and disposition transactions tend to be highly volatile and unpredictable or “lumpy” from quarter to quarter due to the one-time nature of the transaction and the size of the fee. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from the successful completion of those transactions, our business and results of operations will likely be adversely affected. Our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees is critical to the success of our business. Historically, the market for qualified employees within the financial services industry has been marked by intense competition, and the performance of our business may suffer to the extent we are unable to attract and retain employees effectively, particularly given the relatively small size of our company and our employee base compared to some of our competitors and the geographic locations in which we operate. The primary sources of revenue in each of our business lines are commissions and fees earned on advisory and underwriting transactions and customer accounts managed by our employees, who have historically been recruited by other firms and in certain cases are able to take their client relationships with them when they change firms. Some specialized areas of our business are operated by a relatively small number of employees, the loss of any of whom could jeopardize the continuation of that business following the employee’s departure. Further, recruiting and retention success often depends on the ability to deliver competitive compensation, and we may be at a disadvantage to some competitors given our size and financial resources. Our inability or unwillingness to meet compensation needs or demands may result in the loss of some of our professionals or the inability to recruit additional professionals at compensation levels that are within our target range for compensation and benefits expense. Our ability to retain and recruit also may be hindered if we limit our aggregate annual compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of annual net revenues. Our underwriting and market-making activities may place our capital at risk. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. Further, the right to indemnification in favor of the underwriter for these offerings may not be available or sufficient to cover potential liability from any material misstatements or omissions. As discussed above, these underwriting-related risks may be greater with respect to our business in Asia because the Asian capital markets are emerging and generally less developed than those of the U.S. or Europe and many Asia-based issuer companies seeking to raise capital are less mature than may be the case in the U.S. or Europe and may have a higher risk profile. As a market maker, we may own large positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. Use of derivative instruments as part of our risk management techniques may not effectively hedge the risks associated with activities in certain of our businesses. We may use futures, options, swaps or other securities to hedge inventory. For example, our fixed income business provides swaps and other interest rate hedging products to public finance clients, which we in turn hedge through a counterparty. There are risks inherent in our use of these products, including counterparty exposure and basis risk. Counterparty exposure refers to the risk that the amount of collateral in our possession on any given day may not be sufficient to fully cover the current value of the swaps if a counterparty were to suddenly default. Basis risk refers to risks associated with swaps where changes in the value of the swaps may not exactly mirror changes in 14 Table of Contents the value of the cash flows they are hedging. It is possible that we may incur losses from our exposure to derivative and interest rate hedging products and the increased use of these products in the future. For example, if the derivative instruments that we use to hedge the risks associated with interest rate swap contracts with public finance clients where we have retained the credit risk are terminated as a result of a client credit event, we may incur losses if we make a payment to our hedging counterparty without recovering any amounts from our client. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and a significant regulatory action against our company may have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to our company. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to complex and extensive regulation of many aspects of our business by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies, self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges) and by foreign governmental agencies, regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Specifically, our operating subsidiaries include broker dealer and related securities entities organized in the United States, the United Kingdom and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”). Each of these entities is registered or licensed with the applicable local securities regulator and is a member of or participant in one or more local securities exchanges and is subject to all of the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by those authorities. We maintain a representative office in the PRC, and this office is registered with the PRC securities regulator and subject to applicable rules and regulations of the PRC. In addition, our asset management subsidiaries, ARI and FAMCO, are registered as investment advisers with the SEC and subject to the regulation and oversight by the SEC. Generally, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. These requirements are not designed to protect our shareholders. Consequently, broker dealer regulations often serve to limit our activities, through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements and restrictions on the businesses in which we may operate or invest. We also must comply with asset management regulations, including requirements related to fiduciary duties to clients, recordkeeping and reporting and customer disclosures. Compliance with many of these regulations entails a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be newer or unclear. In addition, regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business may intervene in our business and we and our employees could be fined or otherwise disciplined for violations or prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. Over the last several years we have expanded our international operations, including through the acquisition of Asia-based Goldbond Capital Holdings Ltd. Our international businesses subject us to a unique set of regulations, including regarding capital adequacy, customer protection and business conduct, and require us to devote increasing resources to our compliance efforts and expose us to additional regulatory risk in each of these international jurisdictions. The laws, rules and regulations comprising this regulatory framework can (and do) change frequently, as can the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. Recent conditions in the global financial markets and economy caused legislators and regulators to increase their focus on the financial services industry, which resulted in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”). Dodd-Frank significantly restructures and intensifies regulation in the financial services industry, with provisions that include, among other things, the creation of a new systemic risk oversight body, a limitation on proprietary trading and investment by certain bank holding companies, expansion of the authority of existing regulators, increased regulation of and restrictions on OTC derivatives markets and transactions, broadening of the reporting and regulation of executive compensation, and expansion of the standards for market participants in dealing with clients and customers. Also, conditions in the global financial markets have caused regulatory agencies to increase their examination, enforcement and rule-making activity, which we expect to continue in the coming years. Both Dodd-Frank and the intensified regulatory environment will likely alter certain business practices and change the competitive landscape of the financial services industry, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our business also subjects us to the complex income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we have business operations, and these tax laws may be subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes. We are subject to contingent tax risk that could adversely affect our results of operations, to the extent that our interpretations of tax laws are disputed upon examination or audit, and are settled in amounts in excess of established reserves for such contingencies. The effort to combat money laundering also has become a high priority in governmental policy with respect to financial institutions. The obligation of financial institutions, including ourselves, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs. Any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to serious regulatory consequences, including substantial fines, and potentially other liabilities. In addition, as we expand our international operations compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, will become increasingly important. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot ensure that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents, which acts could subject our company to fines or other regulatory consequences. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and could lead to substantial damages. We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include potential liability under securities laws and regulations in connection with our investment banking and other securities transactions. The volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation, arbitrations, regulatory enforcement actions and other adversarial proceedings against financial services firms have increased in recent years. Our experience has been that adversarial proceedings against financial services firms typically increase during a market downturn. We also are subject to claims from disputes with our employees and our former employees under various circumstances. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time, making the amount of legal reserves related to these legal liabilities difficult to determine and subject to future revision. Legal or regulatory matters involving our directors, officers or employees in their individual capacities also may create exposure for us because we may be obligated or may choose to indemnify the affected individuals against liabilities and expenses they incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. In addition, like other financial services companies, we may face the possibility of employee fraud or misconduct. The precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases and there can be no assurance that we will be able to deter or prevent fraud or misconduct. Exposures from and expenses incurred related to any of the foregoing actions or proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future results of operations could be adversely affected if reserves relating to these legal liabilities are required to be increased or legal proceedings are resolved in excess of established reserves. We may make strategic acquisitions and minority investments, engage in joint ventures or divest or exit existing businesses, which could cause us to incur unforeseen expense and have disruptive effects on our business but may not yield the benefits we expect. We expect to grow in part through corporate development activities that may include acquisitions, joint ventures and minority investment stakes. For example, we expanded our existing asset management business in March 2010 with the acquisition of ARI, a Chicago-based asset management firm. Previously, we expanded our business into Asia through the acquisition of Goldbond Capital Holdings Ltd., and into asset management through the acquisition of FAMCO. These corporate development activities, and our future corporate development activities, are accompanied by a number of risks. Costs or difficulties relating to a transaction, including integration of products, employees, technology systems, accounting systems and management controls, may be difficult to 16 Table of Contents predict accurately and be greater than expected causing our estimates to differ from actual results. We may be unable to retain key personnel after the transaction, and the transaction may impair relationships with customers and business partners. Also, our share price could decline after we announce or complete a transaction if investors view the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. Longer-term, these activities require increased investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which, in the absence of continued revenue growth, would cause our operating margins to decline. More generally, any difficulties that we experience could disrupt our ongoing business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We also may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits and synergies from the transaction as fully as expected or within the expected time frame. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or products could have similar effects. To the extent that we pursue corporate development activities outside of the United States, including acquisitions, joint ventures and minority investment stakes, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country. These risks include possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. We intend to further invest in our Asia-based business, particularly China, over time and this expansion will increase our exposure to these risks. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries in many countries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure (for example, joint ventures) might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. Asset management revenue may vary based on investment performance and market and economic factors. We have grown our asset management business in recent years, including most recently with the acquisition of ARI. As our revenues and pre-tax income contributions from this business increase, the risks associated with the asset management business relative to our overall operations also increase. Assets under management are a significant driver of this business, as revenues are primarily derived from management fees tied to the assets under management. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors’ perception of our past performance, market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers and our ability to negotiate terms with major investors. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new asset management business. Poor investment performance and other competitive factors could reduce our revenues and impair our growth in many ways: existing clients may withdraw funds from our asset management business in favor of better performing products or a different investment style or focus; our capital investments in our investment funds or the seed capital we have committed to new asset management products may diminish in value or may be lost; and our key employees in the business may depart, whether to join a competitor or otherwise. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, our asset management revenues will likely be reduced and our ability to raise new funds will likely be impaired. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by our investment style and the particular investments that we make. Further, as the size and number of investment funds, including exchange-traded funds, hedge funds and private equity funds increases, it is possible that it will become increasingly difficult for us to raise capital for new investment funds or price competition may mean that we are unable to maintain our current fee structures. Our asset management business has a higher concentration of key clients as compared to our other businesses, and the loss of one or more of these clients could have a material adverse affect on our asset management revenues. As an example, each of FAMCO and ARI depends in part upon one or more significant clients, and the loss of one or more of these clients would have an adverse effect on revenues. 17 Table of Contents We enter into off-balance sheet arrangements that may be required to be consolidated on our financial statements based on future events outside of our control, including changes in complex accounting standards. In the normal course of our business, we periodically create or transact with entities that are investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships or limited liability companies, established for the purpose of investing in equity or debt securities of public and private companies or various partnership entities. Certain of these entities have been identified as variable interest entities (“VIEs”). We are required to consolidate onto our consolidated statement of financial condition all VIEs for which we are considered to be the primary beneficiary as defined under applicable accounting standards. The assessment of whether the accounting criteria for consolidation are met requires management to exercise significant judgment. If certain events occur that require us to re-assess our initial determination of non-consolidation or if our judgment of non-consolidation is in error, we could be required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of a VIE onto our consolidated statement of financial condition and recognize its future gains or losses in our consolidated statement of operations. For reasons outside of our control, including changes in existing accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, the risk of consolidation of these VIEs could increase. Further consolidation would affect the size of our consolidated statement of financial condition. We have experienced significant pricing pressure in areas of our business, which may impair our revenues and profitability. In recent years we have experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in equity and fixed income trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins in certain instances. In the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. The trend toward using alternative trading systems is continuing to grow, which may result in decreased commission and trading revenue, reduce our participation in the trading markets and our ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. Institutional clients also have pressured financial services firms to alter “soft dollar” practices under which brokerage firms bundle the cost of trade execution with research products and services. Some institutions are entering into arrangements that separate (or “unbundle”) payments for research products or services from sales commissions. These arrangements have increased the competitive pressures on sales commissions and have affected the value our clients place on high-quality research. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of our business. Moreover, our inability to reach agreement regarding the terms of unbundling arrangements with institutional clients who are actively seeking such arrangements could result in the loss of those clients, which would likely reduce our institutional commissions. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. We may suffer losses if our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be diminished to the extent our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or are perceived to fail, to address various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with market dynamics, potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, customer privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products and services. Failure to appropriately address these issues could give rise to loss of existing or future business, financial loss, and legal or regulatory liability, including complaints, claims and enforcement proceedings against us, which could, in turn, subject us to fines, judgments and other penalties. 18 Table of Contents Regulatory capital requirements may limit our ability to expand or maintain present levels of our business or impair our ability to meet our financial obligations. We are subject to the SEC’s uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of FINRA, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from Piper Jaffray & Co., our U.S. broker dealer subsidiary. The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. FINRA may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. Underwriting commitments require a charge against net capital and, accordingly, our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that we must at all times be in compliance with the applicable net capital regulations. In addition, Piper Jaffray Ltd., our London-based broker dealer subsidiary, and Piper Jaffray Asia, our Hong Kong-based broker dealer subsidiary, are subject to similar limitations under applicable laws in those jurisdictions. As Piper Jaffray Companies is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund its obligations, including any share repurchases that we may make. The regulatory restrictions described above may impede access to funds our holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. Our technology systems, including outsourced systems, are critical components of our operations, and failure of those systems or other aspects of our operations infrastructure may disrupt our business, cause financial loss and constrain our growth. We typically transact thousands of securities trades on a daily basis across multiple markets. Our data and transaction processing, custody, financial, accounting and other technology and operating systems are essential to this task. A system malfunction or mistake made relating to the processing of transactions could result in financial loss, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, reputational damage and constraints on our ability to grow. We outsource a substantial portion of our critical data processing activities, including trade processing and back office data processing. For example, we have entered into contracts with Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. pursuant to which Broadridge handles our trade and back office processing, and Unisys Corporation, pursuant to which Unisys supports our data center and helpdesk needs. We also contract with third parties for our market data services, which constantly broadcast news, quotes, analytics and other relevant information to our employees. We contract with other vendors to produce and mail our customer statements and to provide other services. In the event that any of these service providers fails to adequately perform such services or the relationship between that service provider and us is terminated, we may experience a significant disruption in our operations, including our ability to timely and accurately process transactions or maintain complete and accurate records of those transactions. Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, geographic expansion and industry demands also is critical for our business. Introduction of new technologies present new challenges on a regular basis. We have an ongoing need to upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data and transaction processing, financial, accounting, risk management and trading systems. This need could present operational issues or require significant capital spending. It also may require us to make additional investments in technology systems and may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks also is critically important to our business. We take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant. However, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, inadvertent, erroneous or intercepted transmission of information (including by e-mail), and other events that could have an information security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. 19 Table of Contents A disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business due to fire, natural disaster, health emergency (for example, a disease pandemic), power or communication failure, act of terrorism or war may affect our ability to service and interact with our clients. If we are not able to implement contingency plans effectively, any such disruption could harm our results of operations. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter abusive takeover tactics by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include limitations on actions by our shareholders by written consent and a rights plan that gives our board of directors the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquiror. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. In connection with our spin-off from U.S. Bancorp we adopted a rights agreement, which would impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our board of directors. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 