ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Developments in market and economic conditions have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability. Performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity, which generally have a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. These conditions are a product of many factors, which are mostly unpredictable and beyond our control, and may affect the decisions made by financial market participants. Uncertain or unfavorable market or economic conditions could result in reduced transaction volumes, reduced revenue and reduced profitability in any or all of our principal businesses. For example: • Our investment banking revenue, in the form of underwriting, placement and financial advisory fees, is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions as well as our role in these transactions. In an environment of uncertain or unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and size of capital-raising transactions and acquisitions and dispositions typically decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our investment banking services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements, which may reduce the amount of business we do, the size of underwriting, placement and advisory fees we receive and our role in the transactions generating these fees. • A downturn in the financial markets may result in a decline in the volume and value of trading transactions and, therefore, may lead to a decline in the revenue we receive from commissions on the execution of trading transactions and, in respect of our market-making activities, a reduction in the value of our trading positions and commissions and spreads. • Changes in interest rates, especially if such changes are rapid, high interest rates or uncertainty regarding the future direction of interest rates, may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses, particularly our fixed income business, resulting in reduced business volume and reduced revenues. • We expect to increasingly commit our own capital to engage in proprietary trading, investing and similar activities, and uncertain or unfavorable market or economic conditions may reduce the value of our positions, resulting in reduced revenues. Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the economy and this industry also leads to volatility in our operating margins, due to the fixed nature of a portion of our compensation expenses and many of our non-compensation expenses, as well as the possibility that we will be unable to scale back other costs in a timeframe to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions. As a result, our financial performance may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Developments in specific sectors of the economy have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability. Our results for a particular period may not reflect the overall strength of general economic conditions and financial market activity, due to factors that differentiate our business within the financial services industry. For example: • Volatility in the business environment for the consumer, financial institutions, health care, technology, alternative energy, business services, and industrial growth sectors, including but not limited to challenging market conditions for these sectors that are disproportionately worse than those impacting the economy and markets generally or downturns in these sectors that are independent of general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect our business. • Our fixed income activities are centered on public finance investment banking and municipal sales within the higher education, housing, state and local government, healthcare, and hospitality sectors. Additionally, our high-yield and structured product activities specialize in the secondary sales and trading market for aircraft finance debt. We do not participate in significant segments of the fixed income market. As a result, our results in this area may not correlate with the results of other firms or the fixed income market generally. • A relatively small number of institutional clients generate a meaningful portion of our institutional sales and trading revenues, and failure to replace lost business from our larger institutional clients could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies in the financial services industry who are often larger and better capitalized than we are. The financial services industry is extremely competitive, and our revenues and profitability will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. We compete generally on the basis of such factors as quality of advice and service, reputation, price, product selection, transaction execution and financial resources. With respect to a number of these factors, we may be at a competitive disadvantage because of our relatively small size compared to some of our competitors. Consolidation in the financial services industry has bolstered the geographic reach and the capital base of some of our competitors, affording them greater capacity for risk and potential for innovation than is possible with a comparatively small capital base. Larger financial services firms typically have greater resources than we have, giving them flexibility to offer a broader set of products than we can. For example, larger firms have grown their fixed income businesses by investing in, developing and offering non-traditional products. Because we are smaller, it is more difficult for us to diversify and differentiate our product set, and our fixed income business mix currently is concentrated in traditional categories, potentially with less opportunity for growth than other firms may have. Firms with a larger capital base also have greater flexibility to offer credit products to corporate clients, which can be a significant competitive advantage. Recently, extensive regulation and increased competitiveness of international markets have reduced the number of financing transactions conducted in the United States. Larger firms have leveraged their size to adapt to this trend, primarily by growing and supporting their international operations. To the extent companies forgo financing transactions to avoid extensive regulation or use international markets where we currently do not have a presence, our business may be adversely affected. We have experienced significant pricing pressure in areas of our business, which may impair our revenues and profitability. In recent years we have experienced significant pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in debt and equity trading. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins. In the equity market, we have experienced increased pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the increased use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins. The trend toward using alternative trading systems is continuing to grow, which may result in decreased commission and trading revenue, reduce our participation in the trading markets and our ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. Institutional clients also have pressured financial services firms to alter “soft dollar” practices under which brokerage firms bundle the cost of trade execution with research products and services. Some institutions are entering into arrangements that separate (or “unbundle”) payments for research products or services from sales commissions. These arrangements have increased the competitive pressures on sales commissions and have affected the value our clients place on high-quality research. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of our business. Moreover, our inability to reach agreement regarding the Table of Contents terms of unbundling arrangements with institutional clients who are actively seeking such arrangements could result in the loss of those clients, which would likely reduce our institutional commissions. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins. The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results. The completion of anticipated investment banking transactions in our pipeline is uncertain and beyond our control, and our investment banking revenue is typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction. In most cases we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. For example, a client’s acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s or counterparty’s business. If the parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we will earn little or no revenue from the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties, and the number of engagements we have at any given time is subject to change and may not necessarily result in future revenues. Our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees is critical to the success of our business. We face intense competition for qualified employees from other businesses in the financial services industry, and the performance of our business may suffer to the extent we are unable to attract and retain employees effectively, particularly given the relatively small size of our company and our employee base compared to some of our competitors and the geographic locations in which we operate. The primary sources of revenue in each of our business lines are commissions and fees earned on advisory and underwriting transactions and customer accounts managed by our employees, who are regularly recruited by other firms and in certain cases are able to take their client relationships with them when they change firms. Some specialized areas of our business are operated by a relatively small number of employees, the loss of any of whom could jeopardize the continuation of that business following the employee’s departure. Our underwriting and market-making activities may place our capital at risk. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. As a market maker, we may own large positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified. An inability to readily divest or transfer trading positions may result in financial losses to our business. Timely divestiture or transfer of our trading positions can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to transfer positions in highly specialized or structured transactions to which we may be a party and changes in industry and government regulations. While we hold a security, we are vulnerable to price and value fluctuations and may experience financial losses to the extent the value of the security decreases and we are unable to timely divest, hedge or transfer our trading position in that security. The value may decline as a result of many factors, including company-specific, market or geopolitical events. Changing market practices also are increasing the risks associated with trading positions. For example, in order to win business, firms increasingly are committing to purchase large blocks of stock from issuers or significant shareholders, and block trades increasingly are being effected without an opportunity for us to pre-market the transaction, which increases the risk that we may be unable to resell the purchased securities at favorable prices. In addition, increasing reliance on revenues from hedge funds and hedge fund advisors, which are less regulated than many investment company and advisor clients, may expose us to greater risk of financial loss from unsettled trades than is the case with other types of institutional investors. Concentration of risk may result in losses to us even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in our industry. Use of derivative instruments as part of our risk management techniques may place our capital at risk, while our risk management techniques themselves may not fully mitigate our market risk exposure. We may use futures, options and swaps to hedge inventory. Our fixed income business manages a portfolio of interest rate swaps that hedge the residual cash flows resulting from a tender option bond program. Our fixed income business also provides swaps and other interest rate hedging products to public finance clients, which our company in turn hedges through a counterparty. There are risks inherent in our use of these products, including counterparty exposure and basis risk. Counterparty exposure refers to the risk that the amount of collateral in our possession on any given day may not be sufficient to fully cover the current value of the swaps if a counterparty were to suddenly default. Table of Contents Basis risk refers to risks associated with swaps used in connection with the tender option bond program, where changes in the value of the swaps may not exactly mirror changes in the value of the cash flows they are hedging. It is possible that losses may occur from our current exposure to derivative and interest rate hedging products and expected increasing use of these products in the future. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, our risk management techniques and strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Some of our strategies for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. An inability to access capital readily or on terms favorable to us could impair our ability to fund operations and could jeopardize our financial condition. Ready access to funds is essential to our business. In the future we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our working capital requirements, as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. In addition to maintaining a cash position, we rely on bank financing as well as other funding sources such as the repurchase and securities lending markets for funds. Our access to funding sources could be hindered by many factors. Those factors that are specific to our business include the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects if we incurred large trading losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities took significant action against us, or if we discovered that one of our employees had engaged in serious unauthorized or illegal activity. Increases in capital commitments in our proprietary trading, investing and similar activities increase the potential for significant losses. The trend in capital markets is toward larger and more frequent commitments of capital by financial services firms in many of their activities. As we implement our growth strategy following the divestiture of our PCS branch network, we expect to increasingly commit our own capital to engage in proprietary trading, principal investing and similar activities. Our results of operations for a given period may be affected by the nature and scope of these activities, and such activities will subject us to market fluctuations and volatility that may adversely affect the value of our positions, which could result in significant losses and reduce our revenues and profits. In addition, increased commitment of capital will expose us to the risk that a counterparty will be unable to meet its obligations, which could lead to financial losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. These activities may lead to a greater concentration of risk, which may cause us to suffer losses even when business conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. We may make strategic acquisitions of businesses, engage in joint ventures or divest or exit existing businesses, which could cause us to incur unforeseen expense and have disruptive effects on our business but may not yield the benefits we expect. From time to time, we may consider acquisitions of other businesses or joint ventures with other businesses. Any acquisition or joint venture that we determine to pursue will be accompanied by a number of risks. After we announce or complete an acquisition or joint venture, our share price could decline if investors view the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. Costs or difficulties relating to such a transaction, including integration of products, employees, technology systems, accounting systems and management controls, may be difficult to predict accurately and be greater than expected causing our estimates to differ from actual results. We may be unable to retain key personnel after the transaction, and the transaction may impair relationships with customers and business partners. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits and synergies from the transaction as fully as expected or within the expected time frame. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or products could have similar effects. Our technology systems, including outsourced systems, are critical components of our operations, and failure of those systems or other aspects of our operations infrastructure may disrupt our business, cause financial loss and constrain our growth. We typically transact thousands of securities trades on a daily basis across multiple markets. Our data processing, financial, accounting and other technology and operating systems are essential to this task. A system malfunction or mistake made relating to the processing of our clients’ transactions could result in financial loss, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, reputational damage and constraints on our ability to grow. We outsource a substantial portion of our critical data processing activities, including trade processing and back office data processing. For example, we have entered into contracts with Thomson Financial, Inc. pursuant to which Thomson Financial handles our trade Table of Contents and back office processing, and Unisys Corporation, pursuant to which Unisys supports our data center and network management technology needs. We currently are evaluating a system conversion with another third party, which would replace our contract with Thomson Financial. We also contract with third parties for our market data services, which constantly broadcast news, quotes, analytics and other relevant information to our employees. We contract with other vendors to produce and mail our customer statements and to provide other services. In the event that any of these service providers fails to adequately perform such services or the relationship between that service provider and us is terminated, we may experience a significant disruption in our operations, including our ability to timely and accurately process our clients’ transactions or maintain complete and accurate records of those transactions. Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs and industry demands also is critical for our business. Introduction of new technologies present new challenges on a regular basis. We have an ongoing need to upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data processing, financial, accounting and trading systems. This need could present operational issues or require significant capital spending. It also may require us to make additional investments in technology systems and may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks also is critically important to our business. We take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant. However, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. A disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business due to fire, natural disaster, power or communication failure, act of terrorism or war may affect our ability to service and interact with our clients. If we are not able to implement contingency plans effectively, any such disruption could harm our results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive regulation that limits our business activities, and a significant regulatory action against our company may have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to our company. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to complex and extensive regulation of many aspects of our business by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies, securities exchanges and other self-regulatory organizations and by foreign governmental agencies, regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Generally, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. These requirements are not designed to protect our shareholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements and restrictions on the businesses in which we may operate or invest. Compliance with many of these regulations entails a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be newer or unclear. In addition, regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business may intervene in our business and we and our employees could be fined or otherwise disciplined for violations or prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. With the integrity of the financial markets having been called into question in recent years, the current environment poses heightened risk of regulatory action, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business or could result in fines or reputational damage to our company. Additionally, many of the issues that face the financial services industry are complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with them. Moreover, new laws or regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations may also adversely affect our business. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules of the SEC, the NYSE and the NASD have necessitated significant changes to corporate governance and public disclosure. These provisions generally apply to companies with securities listed on U.S. securities exchanges and some provisions apply to non-U.S. issuers with securities traded on U.S. securities exchanges. In addition, the scope of new legal and regulatory requirements could require us to invest in additional resources to ensure compliance, and new accounting and disclosure requirements could adversely affect our business. Regulatory capital requirements may limit our ability to expand or maintain present levels of our business or impair our ability to meet our financial obligations. We are subject to the SEC’s uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of the NYSE, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from Piper Jaffray & Co., our broker dealer subsidiary. The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. The NYSE may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. Table of Contents Our U.K.-based broker dealer subsidiary is also subject to similar limitations under U.K. laws. As Piper Jaffray Companies is a holding company, we depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund all payments on our obligations, including any share repurchases that we may make. These regulatory restrictions may impede access to funds our holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations. In addition, underwriting commitments require a charge against net capital and, accordingly, our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that we must at all times be in compliance with the applicable net capital regulations. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and could lead to substantial damages. We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include potential liability under securities laws and regulations in connection with our investment banking and other corporate finance transactions. The volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation, arbitrations, regulatory enforcement actions and other adversarial proceedings against financial services firms have increased in recent years. Our experience has been that adversarial proceedings against financial services firms typically increase during a market downturn. We also are subject to claims from disputes with our employees and our former employees under various circumstances. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time, making the amount of legal reserves related to these legal liabilities difficult to determine and subject to future revision. Legal or regulatory matters involving our directors, officers or employees in their individual capacities also may create exposure for us because we may be obligated or may choose to indemnify the affected individuals against liabilities and expenses they incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. In addition, like other financial services companies, we may face the possibility of employee fraud or misconduct. The precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases and we cannot assure you that we will be able to deter or prevent fraud or misconduct. Exposures from and expenses incurred related to any of the foregoing actions or proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future results of operations could be adversely affected if reserves relating to these legal liabilities are required to be increased or legal proceedings are resolved in excess of established reserves. The business operations that we conduct outside of the United States subject us to unique risks. To the extent we conduct business outside the United States, we are subject to risks including, without limitation, the risk that we will be unable to provide effective operational support to these business activities, the risk of non-compliance with foreign laws and regulations, the general economic and political conditions in countries where we conduct business and currency fluctuations. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed. We may suffer losses if our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be diminished to the extent our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or are perceived to fail, to address various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, customer privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products and services. Failure to appropriately address these issues could give rise to additional complaints, claims and enforcement proceedings against us, which could, in turn, subject us to fines, judgments and other penalties. Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business, including but not limited to changes in our revenues and operating results. We may not achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which could cause fluctuations in our stock price. Other factors that may affect our stock price include changes in competitive conditions in the securities industry, developments in regulation affecting our business, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts and changes in recommendations by market analysts. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter abusive takeover tactics by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include a classified board of directors, limitations on actions by our shareholders by written consent and a rights plan that gives our board of directors the right to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquiror. Our board of directors recently approved, subject to shareholder approval, Table of Contents eliminating the classified structure of the board, which would result in the annual election of all directors in 2010. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. In connection with our spin-off from U.S. Bancorp we adopted a rights agreement, which would impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our board of directors. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 