Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects would suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our operations and business results. Risks Related to Our Business To be commercially successful, spine surgeons must accept that our products are a safe and effective alternative to other surgical treatments of certain spine disorders. Our revenue is primarily derived from sales of our AxiaLIF products and related surgical instruments. We expect that sales of our AxiaLIF products will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We believe spine surgeons may not widely adopt our products unless they determine, based on experience, long-term clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that our products provide a safe and effective alternative to conventional procedures used to treat certain spine disorders or other non-conventional procedures offered by our competitors. Spine surgeons may be slow to adopt our technology for the following reasons, among others: • lack of long-term clinical data supporting additional patient benefits; • lack of experience with our products; • lack of evidence supporting the cost savings, clinical efficacy or safety of our products and procedure over competitive products and medical technologies; • perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; • training time required to use a new product or procedure; and • availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for hospitals and surgeons. If we are unable to effectively demonstrate to spine surgeons the benefits of our products as compared to other surgical treatments of spine disorders that are available to them and our products fail to achieve market acceptance, our future revenues will be adversely impacted. In addition, we believe recommendations and support of our products by influential spine surgeons are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive support from these spine surgeons or do not have favorable long-term clinical data, spine surgeons may not use our products and our future revenues will be harmed, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. The efficacy of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and may therefore prove to be less effective than initially thought. We obtained 510(k) clearance to manufacture, market and sell all of our currently U.S. marketed products for which FDA clearance is required. In order to obtain 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer must demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that its device is “substantially equivalent” to other legally marketed devices not requiring premarket approval, or PMA. In contrast, certain high-risk and/or new devices require submission of a PMA application to the FDA. Such a PMA application must demonstrate that the device is safe and effective for the proposed indication, and must be supported by extensive data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process is therefore less costly and rigorous than the PMA process and requires less supporting clinical data. Because our devices were cleared for marketing through the 510(k) process or were exempt from the 510(k) process, we currently lack the breadth of published long-term clinical data supporting the efficacy of our AxiaLIF products and the benefits they offer that might have been generated in connection with the PMA process. 20 Table of Contents The demand for our products and the prices which customers and patients are willing to pay for our products depend upon the ability of our customers to obtain adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for their purchases of our products. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental and private payors. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the costs and fees associated with our AxiaLIF procedures. Physicians generally use billing codes known as CPT codes to report professional services rendered for reimbursement purposes. The CPT coding system is maintained and updated on an annual basis by the Panel. In 2008, most of the surgeons performing our procedure billed third-party payors using existing ALIF procedure codes. Effective January 1, 2009, the AMA, however, created a new emerging technology CPT code — or Category III code — to facilitate data collection on and assessment of new services and procedures such as the AxiaLIF procedure. This change made it more difficult for physicians to obtain reimbursement for our procedure because many commercial payors view a Category III code as “experimental” or “investigational” and thus will not pre-approve the procedure or will decline to pay for the procedure until they see additional clinical evidence. This uncertainty around the availability and amount of reimbursement has caused some physicians to revert to other fusion surgeries where coverage and reimbursement are more certain. We made a presentation to the Panel at their October 2011 meeting, asking them to consider transitioning the Category III code to a permanent Category I code for our AxiaLIF procedures. On November 8, 2011, the Company received notice from the AMA that the Panel rejected our request to convert Category III codes 0195T and 0196T, used to bill for the service in which the Company’s product is used, to Category I codes. We subsequently presented to the Panel at their February 2012 meeting, again asking them to consider transitioning the Category III code to a permanent Category I code for our AxiaLIF procedures. On March 5, 2012, we announced that the Panel has voted to approve an application for a new Category I CPT code, 225XX1, for L5/S1 spinal fusion utilizing our AxiaLIF implant when performing a pre-sacral interbody fusion. In addition, the Panel has voted to establish a new Category III CPT code, 019XXT, as an add-on code to the new Category I code for use when performing L4/5 spinal fusion. The new CPT codes were announced on the AMA’s website on March 2, 2012, and will become effective on January 1, 2013. Third-party payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. While we have received several positive coverage and reimbursement decisions from payers for the use of our products during the period from January 2011 through March 2012 and are currently engaged in discussions with other payors, it is difficult to predict the timing of receiving any additional positive coverage decisions and there is no guarantee that payors will make any additional positive coverage decisions. Our business would be negatively impacted to the extent any such coverage decisions reduce our customers’ ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement for the procedures using our products. In addition, our stock price could be negatively affected to the extent that coverage decisions by payors do not reflect market expectations for such decisions. With respect to coverage and reimbursement outside of the United States, reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take up to 18 months, or longer. Many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Reimbursement in international markets may require us to undertake country-specific reimbursement activities, including additional clinical studies, which could be time consuming, expensive and may not yield acceptable reimbursement rates. Furthermore, healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to contain these costs. These 21 Table of Contents cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to major surgery, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. Some healthcare providers in the United States have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers may also attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible. These cost-control methods also potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for certain types of medical procedures. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical technology exists among payors. Therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly for each payor. The continuing efforts of third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the United States or outside, to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could restrict our customers’ ability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting both in the United States and internationally could harm our business by adversely affecting the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. Reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, U.S. President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which makes a number of substantial changes in the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among other things, the PPACA requires medical device manufacturers to pay a sales tax equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices, beginning January 1, 2013. A number of states have challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of PPACA, and many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to PPACA, whether to amend certain provisions or its entirety. We cannot assure you that PPACA, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. The full impact on our business of PPACA is uncertain. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since PPACA was enacted. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee was unable to achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, thereby triggering an automatic reduction in spending programs. These automatic cuts will be made to several government programs and, with respect to Medicare, would include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. The full impact on our business of PPACA and the new law is uncertain. Nor is it clear whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how such changes would affect our industry generally or our ability to successfully commercialize our products or the development of new products. We have incurred losses since inception and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception in May 2000 and we have an accumulated deficit of $108.9 million through December 31, 2011. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our equity securities, including the sale of 6,200,000 shares of our common stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $18.2 million in September 2011, and have devoted substantially all of our resources to research and development of our products, the commercial launch of our products and the development of a sales team to 22 Table of Contents market our products. We expect our expenses to increase in connection with our clinical trials and research and development activities, as well as to support our sales and marketing efforts. As a result, we expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We are in a highly competitive market segment, which is subject to rapid technological change. The market for treatment of spine disorders is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use in the treatment of spine disorders. We face competition from both established and development stage companies. Many of these companies have competitive advantages, including: • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation; • significantly greater name recognition; • established relationships with spine surgeons, customers and third-party payors; • reimbursement codes providing for adequate coverage and reimbursement to hospitals and surgeons; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • established sales and marketing, and distribution networks; and • greater experience in developing new products, conducting clinical trials, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products. Our failure to continue building effective sales and marketing capabilities for our products could significantly impair our ability to increase sales of our products. We utilize a hybrid model of independent sales agents and direct sales representatives for product sales in the United States and rely on third-party distributors, direct sales representatives and independent sales agents for international sales. As of December 31, 2011, we employed 30 direct sales representatives in the United States and two direct sales representatives in Europe. Effective January 1, 2012, we converted our direct sales representatives in Europe to an independent sales agent, representing Germany, Netherlands, and Belgium. If we are unable to efficiently manage those individuals, our sales will suffer. We also rely on marketing arrangements with independent sales agents in the United States and independent distributors in Europe. We do not control, nor monitor the marketing practices of our independent sales agents or distributors and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans or complying with applicable laws regarding marketing practices. Independent distributors and sales agents may terminate their relationship with us, or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval for, and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner. It is important to our business that we continue to build a more complete product offering for treatment of spine disorders. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products to keep pace with the rapidly changing spine market. However, we may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for product enhancements, or new products, or these products may not be accepted by spine surgeons or payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products. 23 Table of Contents The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate spine surgeon and patient needs; • develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; • avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties; • demonstrate the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical studies and clinical trials; • obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements; • be fully FDA-compliant with marketing of new devices or modified products; • provide adequate training to potential users of our products; • receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed with our products; and • develop an effective and FDA-compliant, dedicated marketing and distribution network. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer. If clinical trials of our current or future product candidates do not produce results necessary to support regulatory clearance or approval in the United States or elsewhere, we will be unable to commercialize these products. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing in addition to those we have planned. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent or significantly delay receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products outside the United States represented 8.8% of our revenue in 2011. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade, import and export, and customs regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, civil and administrative penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of complicated and costly export licensing requirements; • the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; 24 Table of Contents • economic weakness or uncertainty, including the sovereign debt crises affecting several countries in the European Union; • political instability; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; • complications arising from enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and • uncertainties surrounding the enforcement or defense of our intellectual property rights. We purchase some of the key components of our products from single suppliers. The loss of these suppliers could prevent or delay shipments of our products or delay our clinical trials or otherwise adversely affect our business. Some of the key components of our products and related services are currently purchased from only single suppliers with which we do not have long-term contracts. Some of these suppliers may be located outside of the United States, which could make us subject to foreign export laws and U.S. import and customs statutes and regulations, thus complicating and delaying shipments of components. If necessary or desirable, we could source our product components and related services from other suppliers. However, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components, and obtaining any necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, could take a substantial amount of time and could result in increased costs and impair our ability to produce our products, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and prospects. If our independent contract manufacturers fail to timely deliver to us sufficient quantities of some of our products and components in a timely manner, our operations may be harmed. Our reliance on independent contract manufacturers to manufacture most of our products and components involves several risks, including: • inadequate capacity of the manufacturer’s facilities; • financial difficulties experienced by manufacturers due to the current economic weakness and uncertainty; • interruptions in access to certain process technologies; and • reduced control over product availability, quality, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Shortages of raw materials, production capacity or financial constraints, or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such reduction, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or increases in the prices of components, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we could be forced to secure new or alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers. Securing a replacement contract manufacturer or supplier could be difficult. The introduction of new or alternative manufacturers or suppliers also may require design changes to our devices that are subject to FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals. We may also be required to assess the new manufacturer’s compliance with 25 Table of Contents all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. As a result, we could incur increased production costs, experience delays in deliveries of our products, suffer damage to our reputation and experience an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We depend on the specialized knowledge and skills of our officers and other key employees, and if we are unable to retain and motivate them or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on our officers and other key employees. Due to the specialized knowledge and skills each of our officers and other key employees possesses with respect to the treatment of spine disorders and our operations, the loss of service of any of our officers and other key employees could delay or prevent the successful completion of our clinical trials, the growth of revenue from existing products and the commercialization of our new products. This risk may be exacerbated by the fact that our principal offices are not located in a large, metropolitan area, which could make it more difficult for us to retain employees or attract new employees with the required set of skills. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment without notice and without cause or good reason. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and, if we are unable to raise capital, it could force us to delay, reduce, eliminate or abandon our commercialization efforts or product development programs. We completed a public offering of our common stock in September 2011 and we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances and cash receipts generated from sales of our products will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • market acceptance of our products and the revenues we are able to generate as a result; • the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for hospitals and surgeons; • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials; • the cost of our research and development activities; • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; • the cost and timing of additional regulatory clearances or approvals; and • the cost and timing of establishing additional sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. As a result of the recent economic recession, and the continuing economic uncertainty, it has been difficult for companies, particularly small, medical device companies, to obtain equity or debt financing. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience dilution and the securities may contain terms that are preferential to the new investors as compared to the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the securities may have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and contain covenants restricting our operations, our ability to pay dividends, the amount of capital expenditures we can make, or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Additionally, if we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. 26 Table of Contents Pricing pressures in the healthcare industry could lead to further demands for price concessions and restricted access to spinal fusions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in difficulty in raising or maintaining prices and procedure volumes. The increase in pricing pressure is driven by the competitive environment in the spine market as many larger companies cut prices as they struggle to retain market share as total spine volume growth has begun to subside. Decreasing healthcare utilization as a result of the economic downturn, high unemployment rates, a reduction in the ranks of the full-time employed and the expiration of COBRA benefits has limited the number of patients that are covered for procedures and patients with coverage are faced with increasing deductibles. Additionally, potential patients are increasingly concerned about an extended absence from work, which would be typical of major surgery like lumbar fusion. The spine market generally, and lumbar fusion market in particular, has seen increasing push back from payors with regard to coverage. Spine surgery is a major cost area for payors, and from 2001 to 2008, lumbar fusions for lower back pain grew more than twice as fast as other lumbar fusions. As a result, private payors have increased the criteria that a patient must meet in order to be pre-authorized for lumbar fusion procedures and have put more effort into the preauthorization process. Payors have specifically stopped covering lumbar spine procedures involving degenerative disc disease patients that have no other symptoms such as leg pain or general spinal instability. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to exert downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face the risk of product liability or other claims and may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage, if at all. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of implantable medical devices. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an injury or death. Claims may be made by patients, consumers or healthcare providers. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our current level of operations, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, these coverages may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. Further, we may be subject to claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of spine surgeons, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedure and related processes for our products. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent in their provision of care, the therapeutic effect of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury that is caused by the activities of our suppliers may be the basis for a claim against us. These liabilities could prevent, delay or otherwise adversely interfere with our product commercialization efforts, and result in judgments, fines, damages and other financial liabilities which have adverse effects on our business, operating results and prospects. We operate primarily at a single location. Any disruption in this facility could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our main office is located in Wilmington, North Carolina. In addition, we recently began operating a training facility in Raleigh, North Carolina. Our facilities may be affected by man-made or natural disasters, such as a hurricane. Our facilities, if damaged or destroyed, could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment If we fail to maintain regulatory approvals and clearances, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product modifications, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a non-exempt lower risk medical device through the 510(k) process if the manufacturer demonstrates that the new product is substantially equivalent to other legally marketed products not requiring PMA approval. Our currently commercialized products that are not exempt have been cleared through the 510(k) process. However, we may need to submit a PMA for future products we develop. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device for its intended use. Some of our new products will require FDA clearance of a 510(k). Other products may require the approval of a PMA. In addition some of our new products may require clinical trials to support regulatory approval and we may not successfully complete these clinical trials. The FDA may not approve or clear these products for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. The FDA may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products. Failure to receive clearance or approval for our new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. Any modification to our currently marketed 510(k)-cleared devices that could significantly affect their safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a change in their intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review the manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or a PMA for any modification to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing and distributing, or to recall the modified product until we obtain such clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance or premarket approval application, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For those products sold in the European Union, or E.U., we must notify our E.U. Notified Body if significant changes are made to the products or if there are substantial changes to our quality assurance systems affecting those products. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a time consuming process, and delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with U.S. federal, state, and foreign governmental regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearance or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties, among other things. In the most extreme cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facility are possible. To the extent one of our suppliers fails to comply with applicable U.S. federal, state and foreign regulations, it may affect our ability 28 Table of Contents either to obtain components and/or finished products or to have our finished products manufactured. In addition, changes in governmental policies or regulations may impose additional regulatory requirements on us, which could delay our ability to obtain new clearances or approvals and increase the costs of compliance. For instance, in response to concerns both within and outside FDA regarding the transparency and robustness of the 510(k) clearance process, in early 2011 FDA announced many action items it intends to take in efforts to improve the 510(k) program. The reforms, which will be implemented through a series of draft guidance documents and regulations issued over the coming months and years, may impose additional or different regulatory requirements on us and make it more difficult for us to obtain 510(k) clearances for our new devices and to commercialize modifications to our existing devices. Similarly, FDA is in the process of revising its manufacturer guidance for the validation of cleaning and sterilization instructions. FDA published a draft guidance for industry in May 2011 that when finalized may impose additional regulatory expectations on us and make it more difficult for us to obtain 510(k) clearances for our new devices or may require us to develop more robust validations for our currently marketed devices. Additionally, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the “Amendments”) require, among other things, that FDA propose, and ultimately implement, regulations that will require manufacturers to label medical devices with unique identifiers unless a waiver is received from FDA. Once implemented, compliance with those regulations may require us to take additional steps in the manufacture of our products and labeling. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. Further, foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent and, to the extent we market and sell our products internationally, we may be subject to rigorous international regulation in the future. In these circumstances, we rely significantly on our foreign independent distributors to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to obtain foreign approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market Conducting successful clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators and support staff, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the ability of those patients to comply with the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and meet study compliance requirements. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols and data to demonstrate safety and efficacy are required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance and approval. Further, the FDA may require us to submit data on a greater number of patients than we originally anticipated and/or for a longer follow-up period or change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to our clinical trials. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients or clinical investigators to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the clearance or approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, FDA may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. 29 Table of Contents Even if our products are approved by regulatory authorities, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and labeling and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with QSR and Medical Device Directive regulations, which may include ISO standards, for the manufacture of our products and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain clearance or approval. Regulatory bodies enforce the QSR and ISO regulations through inspections. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines and civil penalties, delays in approving products, withdrawal or suspension of the approval of products, product recalls, operating restrictions, or unanticipated expenditures to address or defend regulatory actions. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales and profitability to suffer and may prevent us from generating revenue. Furthermore, our key suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, such clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training educational, labeling or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training educational, labeling or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. Our facilities and manufacturing techniques generally must conform to standards that are established by the FDA and other government agencies, including those of European and other foreign governments. These regulatory agencies may conduct periodic audits or inspections of our facilities or our processes to monitor our compliance with applicable regulatory standards. If a regulatory agency finds that we have failed to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us, delay or withdraw pre-market clearances or other regulatory approvals or, if such a regulatory agency determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by an applicable regulatory agency could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability 30 Table of Contents that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in significant delays, fines, increased costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA. If our products, or malfunction of our products, cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices in the market in the European Union are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the Competent Authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Were this to happen to us, the relevant Competent Authority would file an initial report, and there would then be a further inspection or assessment if there are particular issues. This would be carried out either by the Competent Authority or it could require that the Notified Body, carry out the inspection or assessment. Any such adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. We are subject to complex and evolving federal and state healthcare laws, including laws relating to fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security, and could be subjected to governmental investigations into our compliance with such laws and substantial penalties if we are shown to have failed to comply with such laws. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. These healthcare laws and regulations include, for example: • the federal Anti-kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase order or recommendation of, any item or services for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 31 Table of Contents • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which established federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • federal false claims laws, which, prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us to the extent that our interactions with customers may affect their billing or coding practices; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. We have adopted policies and procedures designed to comply with the various healthcare laws applicable to our business. However, because of the breadth of these laws and regulations and the sometimes subjective nature of their application, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. The risk of being found to have violated such laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, in recent years, we believe that both federal and state regulators have increased regulation, enforcement, inspections and governmental investigations of the medical device industry, which further increases the risk that our business activities could be subject to challenge under certain laws. The PPACA, among other things, also amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud laws such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it, which further expands the breadth of the applicable laws. Furthermore, it is also possible that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. As discussed in more detail in the risk factor entitled “We are involved in an ongoing governmental investigation, the existence and results of which may adversely impact our business and results of operations”, in October 2011, we received a subpoena issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, under the authority of the federal healthcare fraud and false claims laws. We are cooperating with the government’s request and are in the process of responding to the subpoena. No claims have been made against the Company at this time. If our past or present operations, or those of our independent sales agents and distributors, are found to be in violation of any federal healthcare fraud and false claims laws, or any other applicable governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If the healthcare providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. The PPACA imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013. Such information will be made publicly available in a searchable format beginning September 30, 2013. In addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. 32 Table of Contents In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of corporate compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. We are involved in an ongoing governmental investigation, the existence and results of which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. In October 2011, we received a subpoena issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, under the authority of the federal healthcare fraud and false claims laws. The subpoena seeks documents for the period January 1, 2008 through October 6, 2011. The Company is cooperating with the government’s request and is in the process of responding to the subpoena. While no claims have been made against the Company at this time, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the matters raised by the Office of Inspector General, and, if we are found to be in violation of any federal healthcare fraud and false claims laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. We are also unable to predict what impact, if any, the outcome of the matters raised by the Office of Inspector General will have on the willingness of surgeons to accept our products, our ability to hire or retain sales representatives and other employees, potential future reimbursement decisions by payors or other significant aspects of our business. Any of the foregoing potential adverse developments related to the government investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, whether or not any claims are brought against the Company, the costs and expenses of responding to the government subpoena could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace or result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or result in FDA sanctions if we are deemed to have engaged in such promotion. Our currently marketed products have been cleared by the FDA’s 510(k) clearance process (or were exempt from the 510(k) process) for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain lower lumbar spine conditions. We cannot, however, prevent a physician from using our products or procedure outside of those indications cleared for use, known as off-label use. There may be increased risk of injury if physicians attempt to use our products off-label. We train our sales force not to promote our products for off-label uses. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been cleared by the FDA may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients. Physicians may also misuse our products or use improper techniques, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by insurance. If we are deemed by the FDA to have engaged in the promotion of any our products for off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or we could be subject to FDA enforcement action, including significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Any of these events could harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the procedures created with, and the technologies used in, our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not be approved, may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or may issue patents which may be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. The patents we own may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage, and competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products which provide outcomes which are comparable to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our officers, employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of such agreements. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. However, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks, or we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. In the event a competitor infringes upon our intellectual property rights, enforcing our rights may be costly, difficult and time consuming and we may not have sufficient resources to enforce such rights. Any lawsuit, whether initiated by us to enforce our intellectual property rights or by a third party against us alleging infringement, may cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, and may divert our attention from our business and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Patent litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our success will also depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors. If our products are found to infringe the patents of others, our development, manufacture and sale of such products could be severely restricted or prohibited. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio and unpatented proprietary technology to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our patent rights. 34 Table of Contents A patent infringement suit or other infringement or misappropriation claim brought against us or any of our strategic partners or licensees may force us or any of our strategic partners or licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property, unless that party grants us or any strategic partners or licensees rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, even if we, our strategic partners or our licensees are able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Also, there is the possibility that we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Entities affiliated with Delphi Ventures and Advanced Technology Ventures, which are each principal stockholders of TranS1 Inc., purchased an aggregate of 2,538,461 shares of common stock in our September 2011 common stock financing at the public offering price. Additionally, David Simpson, one of our directors, and Joseph Slattery, our Chief Financial Officer, purchased 50,000 shares and 15,000 shares, respectively, in the offering at the public offering price. As a result, as of December 31, 2011, our officers, directors and principal stockholders, collectively held approximately 49.4% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, could potentially exercise their significant voting power and influence the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes. As of December 31, 2011, we have federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”) of approximately $83.5 million. In general, if there is an “ownership change” with respect to the Company, as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Code”), the utilization of our NOL carryfowards may be subject to substantial limitations imposed by the Code, and similar state provisions. As a result of prior offerings of our common stock, the utilization of the NOL carryfowards may be subject to the substantial limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Code, and similar state provisions. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and our stockholders may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price paid for such shares. The price for shares of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant price fluctuations, which makes our common stock unsuitable for many investors. For example, for the three years ended December 31, 2011, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $8.60 per share to a low of $1.50 per share. At times, the fluctuations in the price of our common stock may have been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad fluctuations may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. Trading in our stock has historically been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2011 was approximately 167,000 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell 35 Table of Contents their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace management, engage in proxy contests and effect changes in control. The provisions of our charter documents include: • a classified board so that only one of the three classes of directors on our board of directors is elected each year; • procedures for advance notification of stockholder director nominations and proposals; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; • a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as our board of directors may determine. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 