ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Developments in market and economic conditions have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability and cause volatility in our results of operations.Economic and market conditions have had, and will continue to have, a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition because performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity. For example:•Interest rates, which had been at or near historical lows in 2012, rose significantly in 2013 as investors anticipated that the Federal Reserve would taper its quantitative easing program based on a stronger U.S. economy. At times in 2013, the rise in interest rates was rapid and severe, which led to widening credit spreads and a volatile trading environment. This environment negatively impacted our fixed income institutional business in 2013 as it reduced client activity and the value of our fixed income inventory positions, both those held for facilitating client activity and our own proprietary trading. Our interest rate hedging strategies were not able to fully mitigate these inventory losses. Also, our public finance investment banking business underwrote significantly fewer debt refinancing issuances as interest rates increased. We expect interest rates to continue to rise in 2014 and a rapid or severe increase may negatively impact our fixed income institutional business similar to 2013. The impact from a rapid or severe rise in interest rates and any attendant volatility on the value of our fixed income inventory positions may not be fully mitigated by our interest rate hedging strategies, as we generally do not hedge all of our interest rate risk and volatility may reduce the correlation (i.e., effectiveness) between certain hedging vehicles and the securities inventory we are attempting to hedge. Interest rate increases in 2014, both gradual and more severe, would continue to negatively impact the volume of debt refinancing issuances in our public finance business. •Our equities investment banking revenue, in the form of underwriting, placement and financial advisory fees is directly related to global macroeconomic conditions and corresponding financial market activity. As an example, a significant component of our investment banking revenues are derived from initial public offerings of middle-market companies in growth sectors, and activity in this area is highly correlated to the macroeconomic environment. Even though equity markets were strong, volatility generally remained low, and the U.S. economy continued to show signs of improvement in 2013, growth has been uneven across various sectors. In addition, the U.S. and global economic recovery as a whole remains vulnerable to the possible risks posed by certain economic conditions or exogenous shocks, which could include, among other things, tepid job and consumer spending growth, the impact from the Federal Reserve's tapering of its quantitative easing program, a decline in the U.S. labor force participation rate, significant cuts to federal spending, concerns about deficit levels, taxes and U.S. debt ratings, a resurgence of the European sovereign debt crisis, and the continued potential for a deterioration in global economic conditions as a result of a significant downturn in one or more major economic regions. If these factors were to worsen or if an exogenous shock were to materialize, it could lead to equity market declines and volatility, which would likely have a significant negative impact on our results of operations.•An unsustainable economic recovery would likely result in a decline in the financial markets, reducing asset valuations and adversely impacting our asset management business. A reduction in asset values would negatively impact this business by reducing the value of assets under management, and as a result, the revenues generated from this business.8Table of ContentsIt is difficult to predict the market conditions for 2014, which are dependent in large part upon the pace and sustainability of the global economic recovery. Our smaller scale compared to many of our competitors and the cyclical nature of the economy and this industry leads to volatility in our financial results, including our operating margins, compensation ratios and revenue and expense levels. Our financial performance may be limited by the fixed nature of certain expenses, the impact from unanticipated losses or expenses during the year, and the inability to scale back costs in a timeframe to match decreases in revenue-related changes in market and economic conditions. As a result, our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.Our proprietary trading and principal investments expose us to risk of loss.We engage in a variety of activities in which we commit or invest our own capital, including proprietary trading and principal investing. During 2013, our proprietary trading activities (which we also refer to as "strategic trading" in this report) related to municipal bonds, non-agency mortgage bonds, and equities constituted a considerable portion of our institutional brokerage revenues, and were a meaningful contributor to our overall financial results. Fixed-income proprietary trading activities — particularly with respect to non-agency mortgage bonds — comprise a meaningful percentage of our Level III assets within our securities inventory. Level III assets have little or no pricing observability, and may be less liquid than other securities that we hold in our securities inventory. In addition to proprietary trading, we engage in principal investing, having established alternative asset management funds for municipal securities and merchant banking. We have invested firm capital in these funds alongside capital raised from outside investors, and intend to continue to develop these alternative asset management strategies. Additionally, we have principal investments in equity and debt instruments of private companies, and in private equity and venture capital funds, among other firm investments.Our results from these activities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, especially as it relates to proprietary trading activity. We may incur significant losses from our proprietary activities due to fixed income or equity market fluctuations and volatility from quarter to quarter. In addition, we may engage in hedging transactions that if not successful, could result in losses. With respect to principal investing, our ability to withdraw our capital from these funds may be limited, increasing the risk of loss for these investments. Also, our merchant banking activity involves investments in late stage private companies, and we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices.Developments in specific sectors of the global economy have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability.Our results for a particular period may be disproportionately impacted by declines in specific sectors of the global economy, or for certain products within the financial services industry, due to our business mix and focus areas. For example:•Our equity investment banking business focuses on specific sectors, specifically business and financial services, clean technology and renewables, consumer, healthcare, industrial growth, and technology, media and telecommunications. Volatility or uncertainty in the business environment for these sectors, including but not limited to challenging market conditions for these sectors that are disproportionately worse than those impacting the economy and markets generally or downturns in these sectors that are independent of general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect our business. Further, we may not participate or may participate to a lesser degree than other firms in sectors that experience significant activity, such as depository financial institutions, energy and mining, and industrials, and our operating results may not correlate with the results of other firms which participate in these sectors.•Our fixed income institutional business derives its revenue from sales and trading activity in the municipal market and from products within the taxable market, including structured mortgages, hybrid preferreds and government agency products. Our operating results for our fixed income institutional business may not correlate with the results of other firms or the fixed income market generally because we do not participate in significant segments of the fixed income markets such as credit default swaps, and currencies and commodities. •Similar to our fixed income institutional business, our public finance investment banking business depends heavily upon conditions in the municipal market. Our ability to effect investment banking transactions in the state and local government sectors has been, and may continue to be, challenged by concerns over debt levels for municipal issuers and fiscal budgets. Our public finance business focuses on investment banking activity in sectors that include state and local government, higher education, housing, healthcare, and hospitality sectors, with an emphasis on transactions with a par value of $500 million or less. Challenging market conditions for these sectors that are disproportionately worse than those impacting the broader economy or municipal markets generally may adversely impact our business. Lastly, our fixed income institutional business and our public finance business could be materially adversely affected by the enactment, or the threat of enactment, of any 9Table of Contentslegislation that would alter the financing alternatives available to municipalities through the elimination or reduction of tax-exempt bonds.•Our equities institutional brokerage business depends upon trading activity to generate revenue in the form of client commissions, and the level of this activity may vary based on economic and market conditions. In times of increased market uncertainty, we may experience reduced customer activity as investors remain cautious.•A significant portion of our asset management revenues are derived from actively-managed equity products, and this type of investment product has experienced asset outflows in recent years. Although equity markets performed well in 2013 and most equity products experienced asset inflows during the year, equity market uncertainty, the increased prevalence of lower-cost passively-managed funds, and other negative events impacting investor confidence could cause the negative trend for actively-managed equity products to continue. Outflows for this investment product negatively affect results of operations for this business, as revenues are closely tied to assets under management.Our stock price may fluctuate as a result of several factors, including but not limited to, changes in our revenues, operating results, tangible book value and return on equity.We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, fluctuations in the market price of our common stock due to factors that relate to the nature of our business, including but not limited to changes in our revenues, operating results, tangible book value, and return on equity. Our business, by its nature, does not produce steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which causes fluctuations in our stock price that may be significant. Other factors that have affected, and may further affect, our stock price include changes in or news related to economic or market events or conditions, changes in market conditions in the financial services industry, including developments in regulation affecting our business, failure to meet the expectations of market analysts, changes in recommendations or outlooks by market analysts, and aggressive short selling similar to that experienced in the financial industry in 2008.The volume of anticipated investment banking transactions may differ from actual results.The completion of anticipated investment banking transactions in our pipeline is uncertain and partially beyond our control, and our investment banking revenue is typically earned only upon the successful completion of a transaction. In most cases, we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. For example, a client's acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client's or counterparty's business. If parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we earn little or no revenue from the transaction and may have incurred significant expenses (for example, travel and legal expenses) associated with the transaction. Accordingly, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties, and the number of engagements we have at any given time (and any characterization or description of our deal pipelines) is subject to change and may not necessarily result in future revenues.Financing and advisory services engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements.Even though we work to represent our clients at every stage of their lifecycle, we are typically retained on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or mergers and acquisitions transactions. In particular, our revenues related to acquisition and disposition transactions tend to be highly volatile and unpredictable (or “lumpy”) from quarter to quarter due to the one-time nature of the transaction and the size of the fee. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements and generate fees from the successful completion of those transactions, our business and results of operations will likely be adversely affected.Asset management revenue may vary based on investment performance and market and economic factors.We have grown our asset management business in recent years, including with the acquisition of ARI in 2010, which has increased the risks associated with this business relative to our overall operations. Assets under management are a significant driver of this business, as revenues are primarily derived from management fees paid on the assets under management. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors' perception of our past performance, market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers and our ability to negotiate terms with major investors.10Table of ContentsInvestment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new asset management business. Poor investment performance and other competitive factors could reduce our revenues and impair our growth in many ways: existing clients may withdraw funds from our asset management business in favor of better performing products or a different investment style or focus; our capital investments in our investment funds or the seed capital we have committed to new asset management products may diminish in value or may be lost; and our key employees in the business may depart, whether to join a competitor or otherwise.To the extent our investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, our asset management revenues will likely be reduced and our ability to attract new funds will likely be impaired. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by our investment style and the particular investments that we make. Further, as the size and number of investment funds, including exchange-traded funds, hedge funds and private equity funds increases, it is possible that it will become increasingly difficult for us to attract new assets under management or price competition may mean that we are unable to maintain our current fee structures.An inability to readily divest trading positions may result in financial losses to our business.Timely divestiture of our trading positions, including equity, fixed income and other securities positions, can be impaired by decreased trading volume, increased price volatility, rapid changes in interest rates, concentrated trading positions, limitations on the ability to divest positions in highly specialized or structured transactions and changes in industry and government regulations. This is true both for customer transactions that we facilitate as well as proprietary trading positions that we maintain. While we hold a security, we are vulnerable to valuation fluctuations and may experience financial losses to the extent the value of the security decreases and we are unable to timely divest or hedge our trading position in that security. The value may decline as a result of many factors, including issuer-specific, market or geopolitical events. In addition, in times of market uncertainty, the inability to transfer inventory positions may have an impact on our liquidity as funding sources generally decline and we are unable to pledge the underlying security as collateral. Our liquidity may also be impacted if we choose to facilitate liquidity for specific products and voluntarily increase our inventory positions in order to do so, exposing ourselves to greater market risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions.In addition, reliance on revenues from hedge funds and hedge fund advisors, which are less regulated than many investment company and advisor clients, may expose us to greater risk of financial loss from unsettled trades than is the case with other types of institutional investors. Concentration of risk may result in losses to us even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in our industry.Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets.The amount and duration of our credit exposures has been volatile over the past several years. This exposes us to the increased risk that third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Deterioration in the credit quality of securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity. Although we review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Also, concerns about, or a default by, one institution generally leads to losses, significant liquidity problems, or defaults by other institutions, which in turn adversely affects our business.Particular activities or products within our business have exposed us to increasing credit risk, including inventory positions, interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposure, merchant banking debt investments, counterparty risk with two major financial institutions related to customer interest rate swap contracts without customer credit exposure, investment banking and advisory fee receivables, customer margin accounts, and trading counterparty activities related to settlement and similar activities. With respect to interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposure, we have credit exposure with six counterparties totaling $22.0 million at December 31, 2013 as part of our matched-book interest rate swap program. In the event of a termination of the contract, the counterparty would owe us the applicable amount of the credit exposure, and we would owe that amount to our hedging counterparty. If our counterparty is unable to make its payment to us, we would still be obligated to pay our hedging counterparty, resulting in credit losses. With respect to merchant banking investments, we have one debt investment totaling $11.6 million as of December 31, 2013. Non-performance by our counterparties, clients and others, including with respect to our inventory 11Table of Contentspositions, interest rate swap contracts with customer credit exposures and our merchant banking debt investments could result in losses, potentially material, and thus have a significant adverse effect on our business and results of operations.An inability to access capital readily or on terms favorable to us could impair our ability to fund operations and could jeopardize our financial condition and results of operations.Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to our business. Several large financial institutions failed or merged with others during the credit crisis following significant declines in asset values in securities held by these institutions, and, during 2011, a financial institution failed due to liquidity issues related to the European sovereign debt crisis. To fund our business, we rely on commercial paper and bank financing as well as other funding sources such as the repurchase markets. Our bank financing includes uncommitted credit lines, which could become unavailable to us on relatively short notice. In an effort to mitigate this funding risk, we renewed a $250 million credit facility for the fifth consecutive year in 2013, and also issued $125 million of unsecured variable rate notes at the end of 2012, refinancing a three-year secured credit facility. The notes consist of two classes, with $50 million maturing in May 2014 and $75 million maturing in November 2015. In order to further diversify our short-term funding needs, we also continue to maintain our $300 million and $150 million commercial paper programs, and initiated a third commercial program in the amount of $100 million during 2013.Our access to funding sources, particularly uncommitted funding sources, could be hindered by many factors, and many of these factors we cannot control, such as economic downturns, the disruption of financial markets, the failure or consolidation of other financial institutions, negative news about the financial industry generally or us specifically. We could experience disruptions with our credit facilities in the future, including the loss of liquidity sources and/or increased borrowing costs, if lenders or investors develop a negative perception of our short- or long-term financial prospects, which could result from decreased business activity. Our liquidity also could be impacted by the activities resulting in concentration of risk, including proprietary activities from long-term investments and/or investments in specific markets or products without liquidity. Our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or if we discover that one of our employees has engaged in serious unauthorized or illegal activity.In the future, we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our working capital requirements, as well as to execute our growth initiatives that may include acquisitions and other investments. Similarly, our access to funding sources may be contingent upon terms and conditions that may limit or restrict our business activities and growth initiatives. For example, the institutional notes noted above include covenants that, among other things, limit our leverage ratio and require maintenance of certain levels tangible net worth, regulatory net capital, and operating cash flow to fixed charges.Lastly, we currently do not have a credit rating, which could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position by increasing our borrowing costs and limiting access to sources of liquidity that require a credit rating as a condition to providing funds.Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses.Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our sales and trading, proprietary trading, merchant banking and underwriting businesses. We have committed capital to these businesses, and we may take substantial positions in particular types of securities and/or issuers. This concentration of risk may cause us to suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. Further, disruptions in the credit markets can make it difficult to hedge exposures effectively and economically. We also experience concentration of risk in our role as remarketing agent and broker dealer for certain types of municipal securities, including in our role as remarketing agent for approximately $3.3 billion of variable rate demand notes. In an effort to facilitate liquidity, we may (but are not required to) increase our inventory positions in securities, exposing ourselves to greater concentration of risk and potential financial losses from the reduction in value of illiquid positions. Further, inventory positions that benefit from a liquidity provider, such as certain types of variable rate demand notes, may be adversely affected by an event that results in termination of the liquidity provider's obligation, such as an insolvency or ratings downgrade of the monoline insurer.Our underwriting and market-making activities may place our capital at risk.We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. Further, even though underwriting agreements with issuing companies typically include a right to indemnification in favor of the underwriter for these offerings to cover potential liability from any material misstatements or omissions, indemnification may be unavailable or insufficient in certain circumstances, for example if the issuing company has become insolvent. These underwriting-12Table of Contentsrelated risks may be greater with respect to our now-discontinued business in Asia because the Asian capital markets are generally less developed than those of the U.S. and many Asia-based issuer companies are less mature than may be the case in the U.S. and may have a higher risk profile. Additionally, indemnification and other contractual obligations of Asia-based companies may offer less protection to underwriters than they do for U.S. companies; Asia-based companies may have no assets in the U.S. upon which collection could be made, and a legal judgment obtained in the U.S. (for example related to an indemnification obligation) may be unenforceable in Asia.As a market maker, we may own large positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified.Our technology systems, including outsourced systems, are critical components of our operations, and failure of those systems or other aspects of our operations infrastructure may disrupt our business, cause financial loss and constrain our growth.We typically transact thousands of securities trades on a daily basis across multiple markets. Our data and transaction processing, custody, financial, accounting and other technology and operating systems are essential to this task. A system malfunction (due to hardware failure, capacity overload, security incident, data corruption, etc.) or mistake made relating to the processing of transactions could result in financial loss, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, reputational damage and constraints on our ability to grow. We outsource a substantial portion of our critical data processing activities, including trade processing and back office data processing. For example, we have entered into contracts with Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. pursuant to which Broadridge handles our trade and back office processing, and Unisys Corporation, pursuant to which Unisys supports our data center and helpdesk needs. We also contract with third parties for market data services, which constantly broadcast news, quotes, analytics and other relevant information to our employees. We contract with other vendors to produce and mail our customer statements and to provide other services. In the event that any of these service providers fails to adequately perform such services or the relationship between that service provider and us is terminated, we may experience a significant disruption in our operations, including our ability to timely and accurately process transactions or maintain complete and accurate records of those transactions.Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, geographic expansion and industry demands also is critical for our business. Introduction of new technologies present new challenges on a regular basis. We have an ongoing need to upgrade and improve our various technology systems, including our data and transaction processing, financial, accounting, risk management and trading systems. This need could present operational issues or require significant capital spending. It also may require us to make additional investments in technology systems and may require us to reevaluate the current value and/or expected useful lives of our technology systems, which could negatively impact our results of operations.Secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our internal and outsourced computer systems and networks also is critically important to our business. We take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant. However, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, inadvertent, erroneous or intercepted transmission of information (including by e-mail), and other events that could have an information security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients', our counterparties' or third parties' operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.A disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business due to fire, natural disaster, health emergency (for example, a disease pandemic), power or communication failure, act of terrorism or war may affect our ability to service and interact with our clients. If we are not able to implement contingency plans effectively, any such disruption could harm our results of operations. 13Table of ContentsLegislative and regulatory proposals could significantly curtail the revenue from certain products that we currently provide.Currently, federal law allows investors in debt issuances by government and non-profit entities to exclude the bond interest for federal income tax purposes, resulting in lower interest expense for the issuer as compared to a taxable financing. In recent years, federal lawmakers have presented various proposals to limit or eliminate the tax-exempt status of this bond interest, and further negotiations in 2014 regarding the budget deficit and federal spending cuts may also include similar proposals. Our public finance investment banking business receives significant revenues as a result of underwriting activity in connection with debt issuances by government and non-profit clients, primarily on a tax-exempt basis. Also, a significant percentage of our securities inventory — both positions held for client activity and our own proprietary trading positions — consist of municipal securities. Any reduction or elimination of tax-exempt bond interest could negatively impact the value of the municipal securities we hold in our securities inventory as well as our public finance investment banking business more generally, which would negatively impact the results of operations for these businesses. Another proposal to address current debt and deficit levels is the levying of a sales tax on financial transactions, similar to that currently in place in certain European countries and proposed in region more broadly. Referred to as a “transactions tax” or “financial transactions tax,” this proposal would tax trading and other financial services activity in an effort to increase tax receipts. These proposals, which have been introduced both at the federal and state level, propose various tax rates for different types of transactions, encompassing activities within investment banking, institutional brokerage, and asset management. One such proposal, introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives in 2011, proposed various tax rates for different types of transactions, including a 0.25% tax on equity transactions. A similar tax was proposed in the state of Minnesota in early 2013 that would expand the sales tax base to include brokerage and investment consulting, which may include the activities noted above. This type of transaction tax would erode commission revenue, and also have a negative impact on our investment banking and asset management activities by increasing the costs associated with these businesses.We have experienced volume declines and pricing pressures in our institutional sales and trading business, which may impair our revenues and profitability.In recent years, we have experienced volume declines and pricing pressures within our institutional sales and trading business. In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to increased price competition and decreased trading margins in certain instances. In the equity market, volumes have declined and institutional clients increasingly limit the number of trading partners with whom they conduct business. The increased use of electronic and direct market access trading has caused additional downward competitive pressure on trading margins, and the trend toward using alternative trading systems continues to grow. These market dynamics may result in decreased trading revenue, reduce our participation in the trading markets and our ability to access market information, and lead to the creation of new and stronger competitors. Institutional clients also have pressured financial services firms to alter “soft dollar” practices under which brokerage firms bundle the cost of trade execution with research products and services. Some institutions are entering into arrangements that separate (or “unbundle”) payments for research products or services from sales commissions. These arrangements have increased the competitive pressures on sales commissions and have affected the value our clients place on high-quality research. Additional pressure on sales and trading revenue may impair the profitability of our business. Moreover, our inability to reach agreement regarding the terms of unbundling arrangements with institutional clients who are actively seeking such arrangements could result in the loss of those clients, which would likely reduce our institutional commissions. We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins.Our ability to attract, develop and retain highly skilled and productive employees is critical to the success of our business.Historically, the market for qualified employees within the financial services industry has been marked by intense competition, and the performance of our business may suffer to the extent we are unable to attract and retain employees effectively, particularly given the relatively small size of our company and our employee base compared to some of our competitors and the geographic locations in which we operate. The primary sources of revenue in each of our business lines are commissions and fees earned on advisory and underwriting transactions and customer accounts managed by our employees, who have historically been recruited by other firms and in certain cases are able to take their client relationships with them when they change firms. Some specialized areas of our business are operated by a relatively small number of employees, the loss of any of whom could jeopardize the continuation of that business following the employee's departure.Further, recruiting and retention success often depends on the ability to deliver competitive compensation, and we may be at a disadvantage to some competitors given our size and financial resources. Our inability or unwillingness to meet compensation 14Table of Contentsneeds or demands may result in the loss of some of our professionals or the inability to recruit additional professionals at compensation levels that are within our target range for compensation and benefits expense. Our ability to retain and recruit also may be hindered if we limit our aggregate annual compensation and benefits expense as a percentage of annual net revenues.Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and could lead to substantial damages.We face significant legal risks in our businesses. These risks include potential liability under securities laws and regulations in connection with our capital markets, asset management and other businesses. The volume and amount of damages claimed in litigation, arbitrations, regulatory enforcement actions and other adversarial proceedings against financial services firms have increased in recent years. Our experience has been that adversarial proceedings against financial services firms typically increase during and following a market downturn. We also are subject to claims from disputes with our employees and our former employees under various circumstances. Risks associated with legal liability often are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time, making the amount of legal reserves related to these legal liabilities difficult to determine and subject to future revision. Legal or regulatory matters involving our directors, officers or employees in their individual capacities also may create exposure for us because we may be obligated or may choose to indemnify the affected individuals against liabilities and expenses they incur in connection with such matters to the extent permitted under applicable law. In addition, like other financial services companies, we may face the possibility of employee fraud or misconduct. The precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases and there can be no assurance that we will be able to deter or prevent fraud or misconduct. Exposures from and expenses incurred related to any of the foregoing actions or proceedings could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, future results of operations could be adversely affected if reserves relating to these legal liabilities are required to be increased or legal proceedings are resolved in excess of established reserves.Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and a significant regulatory action against our company may have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to our company.As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to complex and extensive regulation of many aspects of our business by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies, self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges) and by foreign governmental agencies, regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Specifically, our operating subsidiaries include broker dealer and related securities entities organized in the United States and the United Kingdom, and we have applied for a regulatory license in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China (“PRC”) as we expect to maintain a more limited presence in the region to facilitate our U.S. advisory business following the cessation of operations in 2012. Each of these entities is registered or licensed (or has applied to be licensed) with the applicable local securities regulator and is subject to all of the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by those authorities. In addition, our asset management subsidiaries, ARI, PJIM, and PJC Capital Partners LLC are registered as investment advisers with the SEC and subject to the regulation and oversight by the SEC.Generally, the requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us. These requirements are not designed to protect our shareholders. Consequently, broker dealer regulations often serve to limit our activities, through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements and restrictions on the businesses in which we may operate or invest. We also must comply with asset management regulations, including requirements related to fiduciary duties to clients, recordkeeping and reporting and customer disclosures. Compliance with many of these regulations entails a number of risks, particularly in areas where applicable regulations may be newer or unclear. In addition, regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct business may intervene in our business and we and our employees could be fined or otherwise disciplined for violations or prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities.The laws, rules and regulations comprising this regulatory framework can (and do) change frequently, as can the interpretation and enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations. Recent conditions in the global financial markets and economy, including the 2008 financial crisis, caused legislators and regulators to increase the examination, enforcement and rule-making activity directed toward the financial services industry, which we expect to continue in the coming years. In 2010, the federal government passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”). Dodd-Frank significantly restructures and intensifies regulation in the financial services industry, with provisions that include, among other things, the creation of a new systemic risk oversight body, expansion of the authority of existing regulators, increased regulation of and restrictions on OTC derivatives markets and transactions, broadening of the reporting and regulation of executive compensation, expansion of the standards for market participants in dealing with clients and customers, and regulation of fiduciary duties owed by municipal advisors or conduit borrowers of municipal securities. The intensified regulatory environment will likely alter certain business practices and change the competitive landscape of the financial services industry, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.15Table of ContentsOur business also subjects us to the complex income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we have business operations, and these tax laws may be subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. We must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes. We are subject to contingent tax risk that could adversely affect our results of operations, to the extent that our interpretations of tax laws are disputed upon examination or audit, and are settled in amounts in excess of established reserves for such contingencies.The effort to combat money laundering also has become a high priority in governmental policy with respect to financial institutions. The obligation of financial institutions, including ourselves, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs. Any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to serious regulatory consequences, including substantial fines, and potentially other liabilities. In addition, our international operations require compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot ensure that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents, which acts could subject our company to fines or other regulatory consequences.Risk management processes may not fully mitigate exposure to the various risks that we face, including market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.We refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, risk management techniques and strategies, both ours and those available to the market generally, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we might fail to identify or anticipate particular risks that our systems are capable of identifying, or the systems that we use, and that are used within the industry generally, may not be capable of identifying certain risks. Some of our strategies for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses.Use of derivative instruments as part of our risk management techniques may not effectively hedge the risks associated with activities in certain of our businesses.We use interest rate swaps, interest rate locks, credit default swap index contracts and option contracts as a means to manage risk in certain inventory positions and to facilitate customer transactions. With respect to risk management, we enter into derivative contracts to hedge interest rate and market value risks associated with our security positions, including fixed income inventory positions we hold both for facilitating client activity as well as for our own proprietary trading operations. The instruments use interest rates based upon either the Municipal Market Data (“MMD”) index, LIBOR or SIFMA index. We also enter into credit default swap index contracts to hedge risks associated with our taxable fixed income securities, and option contracts to hedge market value risk associated with convertible securities and asset-backed securities. Generally, we do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. In addition, these hedging strategies may not work in all market environments and as a result may not be effective in mitigating interest rate and market value credit risk, especially when market volatility reduces the correlation between a hedging vehicle and the securities inventory being hedged.With respect to customer transactions, our fixed income business provides swaps and other interest rate hedging products to public finance clients, which we in turn hedge through a counterparty. There are risks inherent in our use of these products, including counterparty exposure and basis risk. Counterparty exposure refers to the risk that the amount of collateral in our possession on any given day may not be sufficient to fully cover the current value of the swaps if a counterparty were to suddenly default. Basis risk refers to risks associated with swaps where changes in the value of the swaps may not exactly mirror changes in the value of the cash flows they are hedging. It is possible that we may incur losses from our exposure to derivative and interest rate hedging products and the increased use of these products in the future. For example, if the derivative instruments that we use to hedge the risks associated with interest rate swap contracts with public finance clients where we have retained the credit risk are terminated 16Table of Contentsas a result of a client credit event, we may incur losses if we make a payment to our hedging counterparty without recovering any amounts from our client.The use of estimates and valuations in measuring fair value involve significant estimation and judgment by management.We make various estimates that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Broadly, those estimates are used in measuring fair value of certain financial instruments, accounting for goodwill and intangible assets, establishing provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation, and regulatory proceedings and tax examinations. Estimates are based on available information and judgment. Therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates and that difference could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.Certain financial instruments, including financial instruments and other inventory positions owned, and financial instruments and other inventory positions sold but not yet purchased, are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains and losses related to these financial instruments are reflected on our consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Where available, fair value is based on observable market prices or parameters or derived from such prices or parameters. Where observable prices or inputs are not available, valuation models are applied. These valuation techniques involve management estimation and judgment, the degree of which is dependent on the price transparency for the instruments or market and the instruments' complexity. Difficult market environments, such as those experienced in 2008, may cause financial instruments to become substantially more illiquid and difficult to value, increasing the use of valuation models. Our future results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the valuation adjustments that we apply to these financial instruments.We may make strategic acquisitions and minority investments, engage in joint ventures or divest or exit existing businesses, which could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and have disruptive effects on our business but may not yield the benefits we expect.We may grow in part through corporate development activities that may include acquisitions, joint ventures and minority investment stakes. For example, we expanded our existing asset management business in March 2010 with the acquisition of ARI, a Chicago-based asset management firm, and we added to our public finance and fixed income sales and trading and corporate advisory businesses with our acquisitions of Seattle-Northwest Securities Corporation and Edgeview Partners, L.P. in July 2013. There are a number of risks associated with corporate development activities. Costs or difficulties relating to a transaction, including integration of products, employees, technology systems, accounting systems and management controls, may be difficult to predict accurately and be greater than expected causing our estimates to differ from actual results. We may be unable to retain key personnel after the transaction, and the transaction may impair relationships with customers and business partners. We may incur unforeseen liabilities of an acquired company that could impose significant and unanticipated legal costs on us. Also, our share price could decline after we announce or complete a transaction if investors view the transaction as too costly or unlikely to improve our competitive position. Longer-term, these activities require increased investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which, in the absence of continued revenue growth, would cause our operating margins to decline. More generally, any difficulties that we experience could disrupt our ongoing business, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We also may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits and synergies from the transaction as fully as expected or within the expected time frame. Divestitures or elimination of existing businesses or products could have similar effects. For example, we shut down our Hong Kong capital markets business in 2012, and realized a pre-tax loss on the investment in our Hong Kong subsidiaries.We enter into off-balance sheet arrangements that may be required to be consolidated on our financial statements based on future events outside of our control, including changes in complex accounting standards.In the normal course of our business, we periodically create or transact with entities that are investment vehicles organized as limited partnerships or limited liability companies, established for the purpose of investing in equity or debt securities of public and private companies or various partnership entities. Certain of these entities have been identified as variable interest entities (“VIEs”). We are required to consolidate onto our consolidated statement of financial condition all VIEs for which we are considered to be the primary beneficiary as defined under applicable accounting standards. The assessment of whether the accounting criteria for consolidation are met requires management to exercise significant judgment. If certain events occur that require us to re-assess our initial determination of non-consolidation or if our judgment of non-consolidation is in error, we could be required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of a VIE onto our consolidated statement of financial condition and recognize its future gains or losses in our consolidated statement of operations. For reasons outside of our control, including changes in existing accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, the risk of consolidation of these VIEs could increase. Further consolidation would affect the size of our consolidated statement of financial condition.17Table of ContentsThe financial services industry and the markets in which we operate are subject to systemic risk that could adversely affect our business and results.Participants in the financial services industry and markets increasingly are closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, technology and other relationships between them. A significant adverse development with one participant (such as a bankruptcy or default) may spread to others and lead to significant concentrated or market-wide problems (such as defaults, liquidity problems or losses) for other participants, including us. This systemic risk was evident during 2008 following the demise of Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, and the resulting events (sometimes described as “contagion”) had a negative impact on the remaining industry participants, including us. Further, the control and risk management infrastructure of the markets in which we operate often is outpaced by financial innovation and growth in new types of securities, transactions and markets. Systemic risk is inherently difficult to assess and quantify, and its form and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time.We may suffer losses if our reputation is harmed.Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be diminished to the extent our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or are perceived to fail, to address various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with market dynamics, potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, customer privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products and services. Failure to appropriately address these issues could give rise to loss of existing or future business, financial loss, and legal or regulatory liability, including complaints, claims and enforcement proceedings against us, which could, in turn, subject us to fines, judgments and other penalties.Regulatory capital requirements may limit our ability to expand or maintain our present levels of business or impair our ability to meet our financial obligations.We are subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and the net capital rule of FINRA, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from Piper Jaffray & Co., our U.S. broker dealer subsidiary. The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital a broker dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid. FINRA may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below its requirements. Underwriting commitments require a charge against net capital and, accordingly, our ability to make underwriting commitments may be limited by the requirement that we must at all times be in compliance with the applicable net capital regulations.As Piper Jaffray Companies is a holding company, it depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund its obligations, including any share repurchases that we may make. The regulatory restrictions described above may impede access to funds our holding company needs to make payments on any such obligations.We may not be able to compete successfully with other companies in the financial services industry who often have significantly greater resources than we do.The financial services industry remains extremely competitive, and our revenues and profitability will suffer if we are unable to compete effectively. An inability to effectively compete will also have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our strategic priorities, which include growth for our public finance, fixed income sales, asset management, and corporate advisory businesses. We compete generally on the basis of such factors as quality of advice and service, reputation, price, product selection, transaction execution and financial resources. Pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including trends toward multiple book runners, co-managers, and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues. The trend toward multiple book runners has also been accompanied by an increasing disparity in the relative economics between or among book runners, with the senior book runner(s) receiving a large percentage of the economics.We remain at a competitive disadvantage given our relatively small size compared to some of our competitors. Large financial services firms have a larger capital base, greater access to capital and greater resources than we have, affording them greater capacity for risk and potential for innovation, an extended geographic reach and flexibility to offer a broader set of products. For example, these firms have used their resources and larger capital base to take advantage of growth in international markets and to support their investment banking business by offering credit products to corporate clients, which is a significant competitive advantage. With respect to our fixed income institutional and public finance investment banking businesses, it is more difficult for us to diversify and differentiate our product set, and our fixed income business mix currently is concentrated in the municipal market and to a lesser extent corporate credits and structured mortgage products, potentially with less opportunity for growth than 18Table of Contentsother firms which have grown their fixed income businesses by investing in, developing and offering non-traditional products (e.g., credit default swaps, interest rate products and currencies and commodities).The business operations that we conduct outside of the United States subject us to unique risks.To the extent we conduct business outside the United States, for example in Asia and Europe, we are subject to risks including, without limitation, the risk that we will be unable to provide effective operational support to these business activities, the risk of non-compliance with foreign laws and regulations, and the general economic and political conditions in countries where we conduct business, which may differ significantly from those in the United States. In 2012, we shut down our Hong Kong capital markets business following a sustained period of operating losses, though we have applied for a regulatory license in Hong Kong to maintain a presence in the region to facilitate advisory engagements. With respect to our Asia-based capital markets activity, we facilitated underwritten capital-raising transactions for Asia-based issuers, which may have exposed us to greater underwriting risk in our capital markets business as compared to the U.S., as noted above.Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the market value of our common stock.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter abusive takeover tactics by making them unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include limitations on our shareholders' ability to act by written consent and to call special meetings. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.None.