Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects would suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our operations and business results. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We have incurred significant losses since inception. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception and before being acquired by us, Baxano also incurred significant losses since its inception in 2005. We expect to continue to incur losses in the operation of our business in the foreseeable future. To date, we have financed our operations entirely through equity and debt financings, and we expect to continue to rely on those sources of funding, to the extent available, for the foreseeable future. Losses from operations have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development programs and from general and administrative expenses, including significant costs associated with establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights, significant legal and accounting costs pertaining to the closing of the Merger and related regulatory filings, and personnel expenses. We have devoted substantially all of our time, money and efforts to date to the advancement of our technology and raising capital to support our business, and expect to continue to devote significant time, money and efforts to such activities going forward. We expect our expenses to increase in connection with our clinical trials and research and development activities, as well as to support our sales and marketing efforts. As a result, we expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. Our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated that our recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, were prepared on the basis that our business would continue as a going concern in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). This basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. However, our independent registered public accounting firm has indicated in its audit report on our fiscal 2013 financial statements that our recurring losses from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be forced to delay or limit planned product development, marketing or product commercialization efforts, pursue a plan to license or sell our assets, cease our operations and/or seek bankruptcy protection if we are unable to raise additional funding to meet our working capital needs. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain sufficient additional funding when needed or that such funding, if available, will be obtainable on terms satisfactory to us. In the event that our funding plans cannot be effectively realized, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Our indebtedness could negatively impact our financial health. On December 3, 2013, we obtained a credit facility, or the Credit Facility, of up to $15.0 million from Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. (“Hercules”) to pay off the existing credit facility we assumed in connection to the Merger and cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder, and for general corporate and working capital purposes. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: · it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; 24 · a portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and other business opportunities; · if we seek to refinance our debt or require additional refinancing in the future, we may be unable to do so on attractive terms or at all; · it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or our ability to adjust to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · we may be vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. The Credit Facility is governed by a loan and security agreement, dated December 3, 2013 (the “Loan Agreement”), which contains limitations on our ability to engage in certain activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with these limitations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which would adversely affect our financial health and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. If we fail to evaluate and execute strategic opportunities successfully, our business may suffer. From time to time, we evaluate strategic opportunities available to us for product, technology or business transactions, such as business acquisitions or divestitures. For example, we acquired Baxano in May 2013. If we choose to enter into such transactions, we face certain risks, such as the failure of an acquired business to meet our performance expectations, diversion of management attention, identification of additional liabilities relating to the acquired business, retention of existing customers of our current and acquired businesses, and difficulty integrating an acquired business's operations, personnel and financial and operating systems into our current business. We may not be able to adequately address these risks or any other problems that arise from our recent or future acquisitions or divestitures. Any failure to successfully evaluate strategic opportunities and address risks or other problems that arise related to any such business transaction could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we fail to generate market acceptance of our products and educate and train surgeons as to the distinctive characteristics of our product candidates, we will not be able to generate revenues on our product candidates. Acceptance in the marketplace of our lead product candidates depends in part on our and our third party contractors’ ability to establish programs for the training of surgeons in the proper usage of those product candidates, which will require significant expenditure of resources. Convincing surgeons to dedicate the time and energy necessary to properly train to use our products and techniques is challenging, and we may not be successful in those efforts. If surgeons are not properly trained, they may ineffectively use our products. Such misuse could result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us. Accordingly, even if our products are superior to alternative treatments, our success will depend on our ability to gain and maintain market acceptance for those product candidates among certain select groups of the population and develop programs to effectively train them to use those products. If we fail to do so, we will not be able to generate revenue from product sales and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. To be commercially successful, spine surgeons must accept that our products are a safe and effective alternative to other surgical treatments of certain spine disorders. Our revenue is primarily derived from sales of our AxiaLIF, VEO and iO-Flex products and related surgical instruments. We expect that sales of our AxiaLIF, VEO and iO-Flex products will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We believe spine surgeons may not widely adopt our products unless they determine, based on experience, long-term clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles that our products provide a safe and effective alternative to conventional procedures used to treat certain spine disorders or other non-conventional procedures offered by our competitors. Spine surgeons may be slow to adopt our technology for the following reasons, among others: · lack of long-term clinical data supporting additional patient benefits; · lack of experience with our products; 25 · lack of evidence supporting the cost savings, clinical efficacy or safety of our products and procedure over competitive products and medical technologies; · perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; · training time required to use a new product or procedure; and · availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for hospitals and surgeons. If we are unable to effectively demonstrate to spine surgeons the benefits of our products as compared to other surgical treatments of spine disorders that are available to them and our products fail to achieve market acceptance, our future revenues will be adversely impacted. In addition, we believe recommendations and support of our products by influential spine surgeons are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive support from these spine surgeons or do not have favorable long-term clinical data, spine surgeons may not use our products and our future revenues will be harmed, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. The efficacy of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and may therefore prove to be less effective than initially thought. We obtained 510(k) clearance to manufacture, market and sell all of our currently U.S. marketed products for which FDA clearance is required. In order to obtain 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer must demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction that its device is “substantially equivalent” to other legally marketed devices not requiring a PMA. In contrast, certain high-risk and/or new devices require submission of a PMA application to the FDA. Such a PMA application must demonstrate that the device is safe and effective for the proposed indication, and must be supported by extensive data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process is therefore less costly and rigorous than the PMA process and requires less supporting clinical data. Because our devices were cleared for marketing through the 510(k) process or were exempt from the 510(k) process, we currently lack the breadth of published long-term clinical data supporting the efficacy of our products and the benefits they offer that might have been generated in connection with the PMA process. The demand for our products and the prices that customers and patients are willing to pay for our products depend upon the ability of our customers to obtain adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for their purchases of our products. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental and private payors. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay for all or a portion of the costs and fees associated with our products. Physicians generally use billing codes known as CPT codes to report professional services rendered for reimbursement purposes. The CPT coding system is maintained and updated on an annual basis by the Panel. Prior to 2009, surgeons performing the pre-sacral interbody fusion procedure billed third-party payors using existing procedure codes. Effective January 1, 2009, the AMA, however, created a new emerging technology CPT code  or Category III code  to facilitate data collection on and assessment of new services and procedures such as the pre-sacral interbody fusion procedure. This change made it more difficult for physicians to obtain reimbursement for our pre-sacral interbody fusion utilizing AxiaLIF because many commercial payors view a Category III code as “experimental” or “investigational” and thus will not pre-approve the procedure or will decline to pay for the procedure until they see additional clinical evidence. This uncertainty around the availability and amount of reimbursement has caused some physicians to revert to other fusion surgeries where coverage and reimbursement are more certain. We made a presentation to the Panel at their October 2011 meeting, asking them to consider transitioning the Category III code to a permanent Category I code for pre-sacral interbody fusion. On November 8, 2011, we received notice from the AMA that the Panel rejected our request to convert Category III codes 0195T and 0196T, used to bill for the service in which our product is used, to Category I codes. We subsequently presented to the Panel at their February 2012 meeting, again asking them to consider transitioning the Category III code to a permanent Category I code for pre-sacral interbody fusion. On March 5, 2012, we announced that the Panel voted to approve an application for a new Category I CPT code, 22586, for L5/S1 spinal fusion via the pre-sacral approach. In addition, the Panel voted to establish a new Category III CPT code, 0309T, as an add-on code to the new Category I code for use with 22586 when performing L4/5 spinal fusion. The new CPT codes were announced on the AMA’s website on March 2, 2012 and became effective on January 1, 2013. The Medicare final rule was released in November 2012, which stated a valuation of the Category I CPT code 22586 for pre-sacral interbody single level spinal fusion at L5-S1, and became effective January 1, 2013. This CPT code, which applies to our AxiaLIF Plus 1-Level device, is a bundled lumbar arthrodesis procedure that includes bone graft, posterior instrumentation and fixation. The Medicare final rule released in November 2013, revises upward the PERVUs for CPT code 22586 for pre-sacral interbody fusion in 2014. The total RVUs for CPT Code 22586 are 53.76 in 2014, an 18.8% increase over 2013. 26 Third-party payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. While we have received several positive coverage and reimbursement decisions from payors for the use of our products during the period from January 2013 through February 2014 and are currently engaged in discussions with other payors, it is difficult to predict the timing of receiving any additional positive coverage decisions and there is no guarantee that payors will make any additional positive coverage decisions. Our business would be negatively impacted to the extent any such coverage decisions reduce our customers’ ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement for the procedures using our products. In addition, our stock price could be negatively affected to the extent that coverage decisions by payors do not reflect market expectations for such decisions. With respect to coverage and reimbursement outside of the United States, reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take up to 18 months, or longer. Many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Reimbursement in international markets may require us to undertake country-specific reimbursement activities, including additional clinical studies, which could be time consuming, expensive and may not yield acceptable reimbursement rates. Furthermore, healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to contain these costs. These cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to major surgery, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. Some healthcare providers in the United States have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers may also attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible. These cost-control methods also potentially limit the amount that healthcare providers may be willing to pay for certain types of medical procedures. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical technology exists among payors. Therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly for each payor. The continuing efforts of third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the United States or outside, to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could restrict our customers’ ability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting both in the United States and internationally could harm our business by adversely affecting the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. We are in a highly competitive market segment, which is subject to rapid technological change. The market for treatment of spine disorders is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use in the treatment of spine disorders. We face competition from both established and development stage companies, including physician-owned spine specific medical device distribution companies. Many of these companies have competitive advantages, including: · greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation; · significantly greater name recognition; · established relationships with spine surgeons, customers and third-party payors; · additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; 27 · established sales and marketing, and distribution networks; and · greater experience in developing new products, conducting clinical trials, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner, receive adequate reimbursement, and demonstrate that our products are safer and less invasive than alternatives available for the same purpose. Because of the size of the potential market, we anticipate that companies will dedicate significant resources to developing competing products. If we cannot successfully introduce new products, adapt to changing technologies, or anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements, our products may become obsolete and our business could suffer. We may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. We seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. We rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease. Our failure to continue building effective sales and marketing capabilities for our products could significantly impair our ability to increase sales of our products. We market and sell our products in the United States through a combination of direct sales representatives and independent sales agents and distributors. If we are unable to efficiently manage our sales representatives, our sales will suffer. We do not control, nor monitor the marketing practices of our independent sales agents or distributors and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans or complying with applicable laws regarding marketing practices. Independent distributors and sales agents may terminate their relationship with us, or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products outside the United States represented 10.1% of our revenue in 2013. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade, import and export, and customs regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, civil and administrative penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: · the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; · the imposition of complicated and costly import or export controls or requirements; · the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; · economic weakness or uncertainty, including the sovereign debt crises affecting several countries in the European Union; · political instability; · changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; · changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; · the imposition of new trade restrictions; · the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; 28 · difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; · complications arising from longer accounts receivable payment cycles and enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and · uncertainties surrounding the enforcement or defense of our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the foregoing factors will not adversely affect our operations in the future or require us to modify our anticipated business practices. We purchase some of the key components of our products from single suppliers. The loss of these suppliers could prevent or delay shipments of our products or delay our clinical trials or otherwise adversely affect our business. Due to quality considerations, costs, or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements, some of the key components of our products are currently purchased from only single suppliers with which we do not have long-term contracts. Some of these suppliers may be located outside of the United States, which could make us subject to foreign export laws and U.S. import and customs statutes and regulations, thus complicating and delaying shipments of components. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, or could be terminated. In addition, we may lose a single supplier due to, among other things, the acquisition of such a supplier by a competitor (which may cause the supplier to stop selling its products to us) or the bankruptcy of such a supplier, which may cause the supplier to cease operations. If necessary or desirable, we could source our product components and related services from other suppliers. However, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components, and obtaining any necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, could take a substantial amount of time and could result in increased costs and impair our ability to produce our products, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and prospects. If our independent contract manufacturers fail to deliver to us sufficient quantities of some of our products and components in a timely manner, our operations may be harmed. Our reliance on independent contract manufacturers to manufacture most of our products and components involves several risks, including: · inadequate capacity of the manufacturer’s facilities; · financial difficulties experienced by manufacturers due to the current economic weakness and uncertainty; · interruptions in access to certain process technologies; and · reduced control over product availability, quality, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Shortages of raw materials, production capacity or financial constraints, or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such reduction, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or increases in the prices of components, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we could be forced to secure new or alternative contract manufacturers or suppliers. Securing a replacement contract manufacturer or supplier could be difficult. The introduction of new or alternative manufacturers or suppliers also may require design changes to our devices that are subject to FDA and other regulatory clearances or approvals. We may also be required to assess the new manufacturer’s compliance with all applicable regulations and guidelines, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner. As a result, we could incur increased production costs, experience delays in deliveries of our products, suffer damage to our reputation and experience an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 29 New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain materials used in manufacturing our products. In August 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new disclosure regulations for public companies that manufacture products that contain certain minerals and their derivatives, namely tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, known as conflict minerals, if these minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of the company’s products. These regulations require such companies to report annually, beginning in May 2014, whether or not the minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and in some cases to perform extensive due diligence on their supply chains for the minerals. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of conflict minerals used in the manufacture of medical devices, including our products. In addition, we expect to incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Because our supply chain is complex, the procedures that we implement may not enable us to sufficiently verify the origins of these minerals, which may harm our reputation. These new requirements also could have the effect of limiting the pool of suppliers from which we source these minerals, and we may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and our profitability. We depend on the specialized knowledge and skills of our officers and other key employees, and if we are unable to retain and motivate them or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on our officers and other key employees. Due to the specialized knowledge and skills each of our officers and other key employees possesses with respect to the treatment of spine disorders and our operations, the loss of service of any of our officers and other key employees could delay or prevent the successful completion of our clinical trials, the growth of revenue from existing products and the commercialization of our new products. This risk may be exacerbated by the fact that our principal offices are located in a smaller metropolitan area, which could make it more difficult for us to retain employees or attract new employees with the required set of skills. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment without notice and without cause or good reason. We will need to raise additional capital in the future and, if we are unable to raise capital, it could force us to delay, reduce, eliminate or abandon our commercialization efforts or product development programs. We believe that our current cash will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through the first quarter of 2014. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: · market acceptance of our products and the revenues we are able to generate as a result; · the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for hospitals and surgeons; · the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials; · the cost of our research and development activities; · the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; · the cost and timing of additional regulatory clearances or approvals; and · the cost and timing of establishing additional sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. As a result of the recent economic recession, and the continuing economic uncertainty, it has been difficult for many companies to obtain equity or debt financing. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience dilution and the securities may contain terms that are preferential to the new investors as compared to the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the securities may have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and contain covenants restricting our operations, our ability to pay dividends, the amount of capital expenditures we can make, or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Additionally, if we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. 30 Pricing pressures in the healthcare industry could lead to further demands for price concessions and restricted access to spinal fusions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in difficulty in raising or maintaining prices and procedure volumes. As total spine volume growth has begun to subside, many larger companies have cut prices as they struggle to retain market share, which has led to increased pricing pressure. Decreasing healthcare utilization as a result of the economic downturn, high unemployment rates, a reduction in the ranks of the full-time employed and the expiration of COBRA benefits has limited the number of patients that are covered for procedures and patients with coverage are faced with increasing deductibles. Additionally, potential patients are increasingly concerned about an extended absence from work, which would be typical of major surgery like lumbar fusion. The spine market generally, and the lumbar fusion market in particular, has seen increasing push back from payors with regard to coverage. Private payors have increased the criteria that a patient must meet in order to be pre-authorized for lumbar fusion procedures and have put more effort into the preauthorization process. Payors have specifically stopped covering lumbar spine procedures involving degenerative disc disease patients that have no other symptoms such as leg pain or general spinal instability. In addition, as a result of significant consolidation in the medical technology industry, group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has also placed pricing pressure on medical device suppliers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, industry consolidation and societal pressures will continue to exert downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face the risk of product liability or other claims and may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage, if at all. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of implantable medical devices. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an injury or death. Claims may be made by patients, consumers or healthcare providers. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our current level of operations, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, these coverages may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. Further, we may be subject to claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of spine surgeons, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedure and related processes for our products. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent in their provision of care, the therapeutic effect of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury that is caused by the activities of our suppliers may be the basis for a claim against us. These liabilities could prevent, delay or otherwise adversely interfere with our product commercialization efforts, and result in judgments, fines, damages and other financial liabilities which have adverse effects on our business, operating results and prospects. Our business and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions, including the current economic environment. Current economic conditions could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Among other things, the potential decline in federal and state revenues that may result from such conditions may create additional pressures to contain or reduce reimbursements for our products from Medicare, Medicaid, and other government sponsored programs. Increasing job losses or slow improvement in the unemployment rate in the U.S. as a result of current or recent economic conditions has and may continue to result in a smaller percentage of our patients being covered by an employer group health plan and a larger percentage being covered by lower paying Medicare and Medicaid programs. Employers may also begin to select more restrictive commercial plans with lower reimbursement rates. To the extent that payors are negatively impacted by a decline in the economy, we may experience further pressure on commercial rates, a further slowdown in collections, and a reduction in the amounts we expect to collect. Any or all of these factors, as well as other consequences of the current economic condition that cannot currently be anticipated, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings, and cash flows and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. 31 A security breach or other disruption of our information technology systems could disrupt our business, compromise our information, and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our revenues and competitive position. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that we can prevent any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. Our facilities and manufacturing techniques generally must conform to standards that are established by the FDA and other government agencies, including those of the European Union and other foreign governments. These regulatory agencies may conduct periodic audits or inspections of our facilities or our processes to monitor our compliance with applicable regulatory standards. If a regulatory agency finds that we have failed to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us, delay or withdraw pre-market clearances or other regulatory approvals or, if such a regulatory agency determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by an applicable regulatory agency could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval for, and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner. It is important to our business that we continue to build a more complete product offering for treatment of spine disorders. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products to keep pace with the rapidly changing spine market. However, we may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for product enhancements, or new products, or these products may not be accepted by spine surgeons or payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to: · properly identify and anticipate spine surgeon and patient needs; · develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; · avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties; · demonstrate the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical studies and clinical trials; · obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements; · be fully FDA-compliant with marketing of new devices or modified products; · provide adequate training to potential users of our products; · receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed with our products; and · develop an effective and FDA-compliant, dedicated marketing and distribution network. 32 If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer. Reforms to the United States healthcare system may adversely affect our business. The healthcare industry continues to undergo significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety, and contain costs. In March 2010, U.S. President Barack Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Health Care Reform Law, which makes a number of substantial changes in the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. We expect expansion of access to health insurance, including the requirement that most Americans carry health insurance, to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the Health Care Reform Law could affect us adversely. Among other things, the Health Care Reform Law requires medical device manufacturers to pay a sales tax equal to 2.3% of the price for which such manufacturer sells its medical devices, which became effective January 1, 2013. Other provisions of this legislation, including Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, other legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to healthcare providers for certain services under the Medicare program. On August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee was unable to achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, thereby triggering an automatic reduction in spending programs. These automatic cuts became effective on April 1, 2013 and have been extended through 2023. We are unable to predict how these spending reductions will be structured, what other deficit reduction initiatives may be proposed by Congress, or whether Congress will attempt to further suspend or restructure the automatic budget cuts. Additionally, the current economic environment has increased the budgetary pressures on many states, and these budgetary pressures have resulted, and likely will continue to result, in decreased spending, or decreased spending growth, for Medicaid programs in many states. Further federal and state proposals for healthcare reform are likely. We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Cost containment measures in the United States and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. Pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results. If we fail to maintain regulatory approvals and clearances, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product modifications, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a non-exempt lower risk medical device through the 510(k) process if the manufacturer demonstrates that the new product is substantially equivalent to other legally marketed products not requiring PMA approval. Our currently commercialized products that are not exempt have been cleared through the 510(k) process. However, we may need to submit a PMA for future products we develop. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device for its intended use. 33 Some of our new products will require FDA clearance through the 510(k) process. In addition some of our new products may require clinical trials to support regulatory approval and we may not successfully complete these clinical trials. The FDA may not approve or clear these products for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization. The FDA may refuse our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products. Failure to receive clearance or approval for our new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. Any modification to our currently marketed 510(k)-cleared devices that could significantly affect their safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a change in their intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review the manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance for any modification to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing and distributing, or to recall the modified product until we obtain such clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For those products sold in the European Union, or E.U., we must notify our E.U. Notified Body if significant changes are made to the products or if there are substantial changes to our quality assurance systems affecting those products. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a time consuming process, and delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with U.S. federal, state, and foreign governmental regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearance or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties, among other things. In the most extreme cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facility are possible. To the extent one of our suppliers fails to comply with applicable U.S. federal, state and foreign regulations, it may affect our ability either to obtain components and/or finished products or to have our finished products manufactured. In addition, changes in governmental policies or regulations may impose additional regulatory requirements on us, which could delay our ability to obtain new clearances or approvals and increase the costs of compliance. For instance, the FDA recently clarified the regulatory requirements to obtain 510(k) clearances. These two new guidance documents may make it more difficult for us to apply for and receive 510(k) clearances for our new devices and to commercialize modifications to our existing devices. Additionally, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 requires manufacturers to label medical devices with unique identifiers unless a waiver is received from the FDA. Once implemented, compliance with those regulations may require us to take additional steps in the manufacture of our products and labeling. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. Further, foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent and, to the extent we market and sell our products internationally, we may be subject to rigorous international regulation in the future. In these circumstances, we rely significantly on our foreign independent distributors to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to obtain foreign approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market. 34 Obtaining approval from regulatory authorities may require successful clinical studies. Conducting successful clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators and support staff, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the ability of those patients to comply with the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and meet study compliance requirements. Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols and data to demonstrate safety and efficacy are required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance and approval. Further, the FDA may require us to submit data on a greater number of patients than we originally anticipated and/or for a longer follow-up period or change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to our clinical trials. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients or clinical investigators to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the clearance or approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, the FDA may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Even if our products are approved by regulatory authorities, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and labeling and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with QSR and Medical Device Directive regulations, which may include ISO standards, for the manufacture of our products and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain clearance or approval. Regulatory bodies enforce the QSR and ISO regulations through inspections. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines and civil penalties, delays in approving products, withdrawal or suspension of the approval of products, product recalls, operating restrictions, or unanticipated expenditures to address or defend regulatory actions. If any of these actions were to occur, it would harm our reputation and cause our product sales and profitability to suffer and may prevent us from generating revenue. Furthermore, our key suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, such clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training, educational, labeling or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training, educational, labeling or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. 35 Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious injury or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls. A future recall announcement could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our sales. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional approvals or clearances could result in significant delays, fines, increased costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA. If our products, or malfunctions of our products, cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or one of our similar devices were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices in the market in the European Union are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the Competent Authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Were this to happen to us, the relevant Competent Authority would file an initial report, and there would then be a further inspection or assessment if there are particular issues. This would be carried out either by the Competent Authority or it could require that the Notified Body, carry out the inspection or assessment. Any such adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. We are subject to complex and evolving federal and state healthcare laws, including laws relating to fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security, and could be subjected to governmental investigations into our compliance with such laws and substantial penalties if we are shown to have failed to comply with such laws. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. These healthcare laws and regulations include, for example: · the federal Anti-kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase order or recommendation of, any item or services for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; · HIPAA, which established federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; · federal false claims laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us to the extent that our interactions with customers may affect their billing or coding practices; and 36 · state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. We have adopted policies and procedures designed to comply with the various healthcare laws applicable to our business. However, because of the breadth of these laws and regulations and the sometimes subjective nature of their application, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. The risk of being found to have violated such laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, in recent years, we believe that both federal and state regulators have increased regulation, enforcement, inspections and governmental investigations of the medical device industry, which further increases the risk that our business activities could be subject to challenge under certain laws. The Health Care Reform Law, among other things, also amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud laws such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it, which further expands the breadth of the applicable laws. Furthermore, it is also possible that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. As discussed in more detail below, in October 2011 we received a subpoena issued by the OIG under the authority of the federal healthcare fraud and false claims laws and settled its federal investigation in June 2013. We also signed a Corporate Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) with the OIG in June 2013 and have implemented the requirements of the CIA. If our past or present operations, or those of our independent sales agents and distributors, are found to be in violation of any federal healthcare fraud and false claims laws, or any other applicable governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If the healthcare providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. The Health Care Reform Law imposes reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers, effective March 30, 2013. Effective September 30, 2013, such information is made publicly available in a searchable format. In addition, device manufacturers will also be required to report and disclose any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for “knowing failures”), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of corporate compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements. 37 We have entered into a Settlement Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement with certain U.S. government entities and may be subject to financial and other penalties, including exclusion from federal healthcare programs, if we fail to comply with these obligations. On June 28, 2013, we entered into a settlement agreement with various U.S. government entities. Under the terms of this settlement agreement, we have agreed to pay an aggregate of $6.0 million (plus accrued interest) in installments from July 2013 through July 2015 in settlement of certain government investigatory matters related to our compliance with federal healthcare fraud and false claims statutes. In addition, we have agreed under the CIA, among other things, to maintain a compliance program designed to promote compliance with various federal health care and FDA requirements. We are required to maintain several elements of our existing compliance program during the term of the CIA, including maintaining a compliance officer, a compliance committee, and a code of conduct. The CIA requires that we conduct certain additional compliance-related activities during the term of the CIA, including various training and monitoring procedures, and maintaining a disciplinary process for compliance obligations. Pursuant to the CIA, we are required to notify the OIG in writing, among other things, of (i) any ongoing government investigation or legal proceeding involving an allegation that we have committed a crime or have engaged in fraudulent activities; (ii) any other matter that a reasonable person would consider a probable violation of applicable criminal, civil, or administrative laws related to compliance with federal healthcare programs or FDA requirements; and (iii) any change in location, sale, closing, purchase, or establishment of a new business unit or location related to items or services that may be reimbursed by federal health care programs. We are also subject to periodic reporting and certification requirements attesting that the provisions of the CIA are being implemented and followed, as well as certain document and record retention mandates. The CIA provides that in the event of an uncured material breach of the CIA, we could be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution and subject to other monetary penalties, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the settlement agreement provides that if we default on our obligation to make timely payment of the installment obligations thereunder, all remaining installments would accelerate and accrue further interest at a rate of 12% per annum, and the government would have the right to institute proceedings against us with respect to the settled matters. Such proceedings could subject us to penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our failure to comply with our obligations under the CIA and/or settlement agreement could affect the willingness of surgeons to accept our products, our ability to hire or retain sales representatives and other employees, potential future reimbursement decisions by payors or other significant aspects of our business. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace or result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or result in FDA sanctions if we are deemed to have engaged in such promotion. Our currently marketed products have been cleared by the FDA’s 510(k) clearance process (or were exempt from the 510(k) process) for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain spine conditions. We cannot, however, prevent a physician from using our products or procedure outside of those indications cleared for use, known as off-label use. There may be increased risk of injury if physicians attempt to use our products off-label. We train our sales force not to promote our products for off-label uses. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been cleared by the FDA may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients. Physicians may also misuse our products or use improper techniques, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by insurance. If we are deemed by the FDA to have engaged in the promotion of any of our products for off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or we could be subject to FDA enforcement action, including significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Any of these events could harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. 38 Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. The success of our business depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the procedures created with, and the technologies used in, our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not be approved, may not result in patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or may result in patents that may be successfully challenged by others and invalidated in the future. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. The patents we own may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage, and competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes comparable to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our officers, employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of such agreements. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. However, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks, or we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. Any lawsuit, whether initiated by us to enforce our intellectual property rights or by a third party against us alleging infringement, may cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, and may divert our attention from our business and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, intellectual property litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. There can be no assurance that litigation will adequately protect our patents or that our competitors will not independently develop products or solutions that are equivalent or superior to ours. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio and unpatented proprietary technology to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our patent rights. Our success will also depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors. If our products are found to infringe the patents of others, our development, manufacture, and sale of such products could be severely restricted or prohibited. In addition, any claim relating to infringement of patents that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Additionally, if we infringe, or are claimed to infringe, a third party’s intellectual property, we may be forced to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, even if we, our strategic partners or our licensees are able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Also, there is the possibility that we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, our officers, directors and principal stockholders, collectively held approximately 51.5% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, could potentially exercise their significant voting power and influence the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. 39 Sales of our common stock to Lincoln Park, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. On December 3, 2013, we entered into a purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) with Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (“Lincoln Park”), pursuant to which have the right to sell to Lincoln Park up to $7.0 million in shares of our common stock, subject to certain limitations. The issuance from time to time of these new shares of common stock, our ability to issue these new shares of common stock in this offering, or the subsequent resale by Lincoln Park of a significant number of shares could have the effect of depressing the market price for our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. Sales of our common stock to Lincoln Park may cause dilution to our existing stockholders. The number of shares of our common stock offered for sale by Lincoln Park is dependent upon the number of shares we elect to sell to Lincoln Park under the Purchase Agreement. After it has acquired shares under the Purchase Agreement, Lincoln Park may sell all, some or none of those shares. Therefore, sales to Lincoln Park by us pursuant to the Purchase Agreement may result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Lincoln Park and the Purchase Agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any cost to us. Future sales of common stock to new investors to continue to provide us operating capital may cause significant dilution to existing stockholders We will continue to require additional working capital through the sale of common or preferred stock or through additional debt instruments until we have cash flow break-even. All of these financing options may also include additional incentives to new investors in the form of warrants to acquire additional shares of our common stock. Related to our current debt facility, we issued a warrant to our lender which enables them to obtain common shares for a term of five years from the warrant issue date if the holder pays the stated exercise price. As a result of these future financing transactions as well as any exercise of the outstanding warrant, dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock may occur. We may be unable to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our income taxes. As of December 31, 2013, we have federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $206.6 million. Our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards to reduce future taxable income may be limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, or the Code, if an “ownership change” in our company occurs during a rolling three-year period. An ownership change could result from, among other things, the offering of stock by us, the purchase or sale of our stock by 5% stockholders, as defined in the Treasury regulations, or the issuance or exercise of rights to acquire our stock. If such ownership changes by 5% stockholders result in aggregate increases that exceed 50 percentage points during the rolling three-year period, then Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the amount of our taxable income that may be offset by our NOL carryforwards at the time of ownership change. While we do not believe the Merger and Private Placement Transaction constituted an ownership change, we have not yet analyzed whether an ownership change would result if the Merger and Private Placement Transaction are aggregated with our issuances of common stock during the prior or subsequent three-year period. It is also possible that future transactions could be aggregated with the Merger and Private Placement Transaction to result in an ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL carryforwards to offset taxable income. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and our stockholders may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price paid for such shares. The price for shares of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant price fluctuations, which makes our common stock unsuitable for many investors. For example, for the three years ended December 31, 2013, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $5.35 per share to a low of $0.96 per share. At times, the fluctuations in the price of our common stock may have been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad fluctuations may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. Trading in our stock has historically been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2013 was approximately 88,437 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. 40 Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace management, engage in proxy contests and effect changes in control. The provisions of our charter documents include: · a classified board so that only one of the three classes of directors on our Board of Directors is elected each year; · procedures for advance notification of stockholder director nominations and proposals; · a prohibition on stockholders being able to call a special meeting of stockholders; · the ability of our Board of Directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; · a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws; and · the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as our Board of Directors may determine. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”). In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. We may not be able to comply with all applicable listing requirements or standards of the NASDAQ Global Market and NASDAQ could delist our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements and standards. There can be no assurances that we will be able to comply with applicable listing standards. In the event that our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate price quotations for, our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. Also, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital if we are not listed on a major exchange. 41 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 