Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects would suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our operations and business results. Risks Related to Our Business To be commercially successful, spine surgeons must accept that our products are a safe and effective alternative to other surgical treatments of certain spine disorders. Our revenue is primarily derived from sales of our AxiaLIF products and related surgical instruments. We expect that sales of our AxiaLIF products will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. We believe spine surgeons may not widely adopt our products unless they determine, based on experience, long-term clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that our products provide a safe and effective alternative to conventional procedures used to treat certain spine disorders or other non-conventional procedures offered by our competitors. Spine surgeons may be slow to adopt our technology for the following reasons, among others: • lack of long-term clinical data supporting additional patient benefits; • lack of experience with our products; • lack of evidence supporting cost savings of our procedure over existing surgical alternatives; • perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; • training time required to use a new product; and • availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for hospitals and surgeons. If we are unable to effectively demonstrate to spine surgeons the benefits of our products as compared to other surgical treatments of spine disorders that are available to them and our products fail to achieve market acceptance, our future revenues will be adversely impacted. In addition, we believe recommendations and support of our products by influential spine surgeons are essential for market acceptance and adoption. If we do not receive support from these spine surgeons or do not have favorable long-term clinical data, spine surgeons may not use our products and our future revenues will be harmed and our stock price would likely decline. The efficacy of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data and may therefore prove to be less effective than initially thought. We obtained 510(k) clearance to manufacture, market and sell all of our currently U.S. marketed products from the FDA. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance process is less costly and rigorous than the PMA process and requires less supporting clinical data. As a result, we currently lack the breadth of published long-term clinical data supporting the efficacy of our AxiaLIF products and the benefits they offer that might have been generated in connection with the PMA process. The demand for our products and the prices which customers and patients are willing to pay for our products depend upon the ability of our customers to obtain adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for their purchases of our products. Sales of our products depend in part on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental and private payors. In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase our products generally rely on third-party payors, principally Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans, to pay 17 Table of Contents for all or a portion of the costs and fees associated with our AxiaLIF procedures. The challenge in reimbursement for our procedure has centered around the CPT code that the physician uses to get paid for performing the AxiaLIF surgery. In 2008 most of our surgeons billed their payor based on an existing ALIF access code. In January 2009, physicians transitioned billing for our procedure to a Category 3 tracking code. This change made it more difficult for physicians to obtain reimbursement for our procedure because many commercial payors view a Category 3 code as “experimental” and thus will not pre-approve the procedure or will decline to pay for that code until they see additional clinical evidence. This uncertainty around the availability and amount of reimbursement has caused some physicians to revert to other fusion surgeries where reimbursement is more certain. Under our current timetable, we anticipate graduating to a Category 1 CPT code for our AxiaLIF procedures on January 1, 2013. In order to meet this objective, we will have to have a successful outcome from any of the June 2011, October 2011 or February 2012 American Medical Association CPT meetings. Any delays in obtaining, or an inability to obtain, adequate coverage or reimbursement for procedures using our products could significantly affect the acceptance of our products and have a material adverse effect on our business. Third-party payors continue to review their coverage policies carefully for existing and new therapies and can, without notice, deny coverage for treatments that include the use of our products. In early January 2011, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K reporting a recent positive coverage decision for AxiaLIF by Humana Inc. While we are currently engaged in discussions with other payors, it is difficult to predict the timing of receiving any additional positive coverage decisions and there is no guarantee that payors will make a positive coverage decision. Our business would be negatively impacted to the extent any such coverage decisions reduce reimbursement for our products. In addition, our stock price could be negatively affected to the extent that coverage decisions by payors do not reflect market expectations for such decisions. With respect to coverage and reimbursement outside of the United States, reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region within some countries, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis and can take up to 18 months, or longer. Many international markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government-managed systems. Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and therefore result in extended payment periods. Reimbursement in international markets may require us to undertake country-specific reimbursement activities, including additional clinical studies, which could be time consuming, expensive and may not yield acceptable reimbursement rates. Furthermore, healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to contain these costs. These cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to major surgery, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. Some healthcare providers in the United States have adopted or are considering a managed care system in which the providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person. Healthcare providers may also attempt to control costs by authorizing fewer elective surgical procedures or by requiring the use of the least expensive devices possible. These cost-control methods also potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for certain types of medical procedures. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for medical technology exists among payors. Therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly for each payor. The continuing efforts of third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the United States or outside, to contain or reduce these costs, combined with closer scrutiny of such costs, could restrict our customers’ ability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from these third-party payors. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting both in the United States and internationally could harm our business by adversely affecting the demand for our products or the price at which we can sell our products. 18 Table of Contents We have incurred losses since inception and we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception in May 2000 and we have an accumulated deficit of $90.6 million through December 31, 2010. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our equity securities and have devoted substantially all of our resources to research and development of our products, the commercial launch of our AxiaLIF products and the development of a sales team to market our products. We expect our expenses to increase significantly in connection with our clinical trials and research and development activities, as well as to support our sales and marketing efforts. As a result, we expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. We are in a highly competitive market segment, which is subject to rapid technological change. The market for treatment of spine disorders is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products for use in the treatment of spine disorders. We face competition from both established and development stage companies. Many of these companies have competitive advantages, including: • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation; • significantly greater name recognition; • established relationships with spine surgeons, customers and third-party payors; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer greater discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • established sales and marketing, and distribution networks; and • greater experience in developing new products, conducting clinical trials, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance or approval for products and marketing approved products. Our failure to continue building effective sales and marketing capabilities for our products could significantly impair our ability to increase sales of our products. We utilize a hybrid model of independent sales agents and direct sales representatives for product sales in the United States and rely on third-party distributors, direct sales representatives and independent sales agents for international sales. As of December 31, 2010, we employed 46 direct sales representatives in the United States and 3 direct sales representatives in Europe. If we are unable to efficiently manage those individuals, our sales will suffer. We also rely on marketing arrangements with independent sales agents in the United States and independent distributors in Europe. We do not control, nor monitor the marketing practices of our independent sales agents or distributors and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans or complying with applicable laws regarding marketing practices. Independent distributors and sales agents may terminate their relationship with us, or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, receive regulatory clearance or approval, and introduce new products or product enhancements that will be accepted by the market in a timely manner. It is important to our business that we continue to build a more complete product offering for treatment of spine disorders. As such, our success will depend in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products to keep pace with the rapidly changing spine market. However, we may not be able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory clearance or approval for product enhancements, or new products, or these products may not be accepted by spine surgeons or payors who financially support many of the procedures performed with our products. 19 Table of Contents The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify and anticipate spine surgeon and patient needs; • develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner; • avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties; • demonstrate, if required, the safety and efficacy of new products with data from preclinical studies and clinical trials; • obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements; • be fully FDA-compliant with marketing of new devices or modified products; • provide adequate training to potential users of our products; • receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed with our products; and • develop an effective and FDA-compliant, dedicated marketing and distribution network. If we do not develop new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer. If clinical trials of our current or future product candidates do not produce results necessary to support regulatory clearance or approval in the United States or elsewhere, we will be unable to commercialize these products. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of the testing. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing in addition to those we have planned. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the efficacy and safety of any of our devices would prevent receipt of regulatory clearance or approval and, ultimately, the commercialization of that device. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our products outside the United States represented 9.0% of our revenue in 2010. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade, import and export, and custom regulations and laws. Compliance with these regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, civil and administrative penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; • economic or political instability; 20 Table of Contents • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines; • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace or result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business or result in FDA sanctions if we are deemed to have engaged in such promotion. Our currently marketed products have been cleared by the FDA’s 510(k) clearance process for use under specific circumstances for the treatment of certain lower lumbar spine conditions. We cannot, however, prevent a physician from using our products or procedure outside of those indications cleared for use, known as off-label use. There may be increased risk of injury if physicians attempt to use our products off-label. We train our sales force not to promote our products for off-label uses. Furthermore, the use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been cleared by the FDA may not effectively treat such conditions, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients. Physicians may also misuse our products or use improper techniques if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by insurance. If we are deemed by the FDA to have engaged in the promotion of any our products for off-label use, we could be subject to FDA prohibitions on the sale or marketing of our products or significant fines and penalties, and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the industry. Any of these events could harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline. We purchase some of the key components of our products from single suppliers. The loss of these suppliers could prevent or delay shipments of our products or delay our clinical trials or otherwise adversely affect our business. Some of the key components of our products and related services are currently purchased from only single suppliers with which we do not have long-term contracts. Some of these suppliers may be located outside of the United States, which could make us subject to foreign export laws and U.S. import and customs statutes and regulations, thus complicating and delaying shipments of components. If necessary or desirable, we could source our product components and related services from other suppliers. However, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components, and obtaining any necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, could take a substantial amount of time and could result in increased costs and impair our ability to produce our products, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and prospects. If our independent contract manufacturers fail to timely deliver to us sufficient quantities of some of our products and components in a timely manner, our operations may be harmed. Our reliance on independent contract manufacturers to manufacture most of our products and components involves several risks, including: • inadequate capacity of the manufacturer’s facilities; 21 Table of Contents • financial difficulties experienced by manufacturers due to the recent economic recession and continuing economic uncertainty; • interruptions in access to certain process technologies; and • reduced control over product availability, quality, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. Shortages of raw materials, production capacity or financial constraints, or delays by our contract manufacturers could negatively affect our ability to meet our production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such reduction, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of our products or increases in the prices of components, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the specialized knowledge and skills of our officers and other key employees, and if we are unable to retain and motivate them or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on our officers and other key employees. Due to the specialized knowledge and skills each of our officers and other key employees possesses with respect to the treatment of spine disorders and our operations, the loss of service of any of our officers and other key employees could delay or prevent the successful completion of our clinical trials, the growth of revenue from existing products and the commercialization of our new products. This risk may be exacerbated by the fact that our principal offices are not located in a large, metropolitan area, which could make it more difficult for us to retain employees or attract new employees with the required set of skills. Each of our officers and key employees may terminate his or her employment without notice and without cause or good reason. If we are unable to raise capital, it could force us to delay, reduce, eliminate or abandon our commercialization efforts or product development programs. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalent balances and cash receipts generated from sales of our products will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next two years. However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • market acceptance of our products and the revenues we are able to generate as a result; • the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement for hospitals and surgeons; • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials; • the cost of our research and development activities; • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; • the cost and timing of additional regulatory clearances or approvals; • the cost and timing of establishing additional sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; As a result of the recent economic recession, and the continuing economic uncertainty, it has been difficult for companies, particularly small, medical device companies, to obtain equity or debt financing. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience dilution and the securities may contain terms that are preferential to the new investors as compared to the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the securities may have rights senior to those associated with our common stock and contain covenants restricting our operations, our ability to pay dividends, the amount of capital expenditures we can make, or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. In addition, if we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our planned product development and marketing efforts. Additionally, if we do not 22 Table of Contents have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Pricing pressures in the healthcare industry could lead to further demands for price concessions and restricted access to spinal fusions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in difficulty in raising or maintaining prices and procedure volumes. The increase in pricing pressure is driven by the competitive environment in the spine market as many larger companies cut prices as they struggle to retain market share as total spine volume growth began to subside. Decreasing healthcare utilization as a result of the economic downturn, high unemployment rates, a reduction in the ranks of the full-time employed and the expiration of COBRA benefits has limited the number of patients that are covered for procedures and patients with coverage are faced with increasing deductibles. Additionally, potential patients are increasingly concerned about an extended absence from work, which would be typical of major surgery like lumbar fusion. The spine market generally, and lumbar fusion market in particular, has seen increasing push back from payors with regard to coverage. Spine surgery is a major cost area for payors, and from 2001 to 2008, lumbar fusions for lower back pain grew more than twice as fast as other lumbar fusions. As a result, private payors have increased the criteria that a patient must meet in order to be pre-authorized for lumbar fusion procedures and have put more effort into the preauthorization process. Payors have specifically stopped covering lumbar spine procedures involving degenerative disc disease patients that have no other symptoms such as leg pain or general spinal instability. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to exert downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face the risk of product liability or other claims and may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance coverage, if at all. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of implantable medical devices. We may be subject to product liability claims if our products cause, or merely appear to have caused, an injury or death. Claims may be made by patients, consumers or healthcare providers. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our current level of operations, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, these coverages may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. Further, we may be subject to claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of spine surgeons, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedure and related processes for our products. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent in their provision of care, the therapeutic effect of our products may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury that is caused by the activities of our suppliers may be the basis for a claim against us. These liabilities could prevent, delay or otherwise adversely interfere with our product commercialization efforts, and result in judgments, fines, damages and other financial liabilities which have adverse effects on our business, operating results and prospects. 23 Table of Contents We operate at a single location. Any disruption in this facility or any inability to ship a sufficient number of our products to meet demand could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We operate at a single location in Wilmington, North Carolina. Our facility may be affected by man-made or natural disasters, such as a hurricane. Our facility, if damaged or destroyed, could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment If we fail to maintain regulatory approvals and clearances, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals for our future products or product modifications, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of most new medical devices only after the device has received clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or is the subject of an approved PMA. The FDA will clear marketing of a non-exempt lower risk medical device through the 510(k) process if the manufacturer demonstrates that the new product is substantially equivalent to other legally marketed products not requiring PMA approval. Our currently commercialized products have been cleared through the 510(k) process. However, we may need to submit a PMA for future products we develop. The PMA process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. A PMA application must be supported by extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device for its intended use. Any modification to our currently marketed 510(k)-cleared devices that could significantly affect their safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a change in their intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review the manufacturer’s decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA requires us to seek 510(k) clearance or a PMA for any modification to a previously cleared product, we may be required to cease marketing and distributing, or to recall the modified product until we obtain such clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Our failure to comply with U.S. federal, state and foreign governmental regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearance or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties, among other things. In the most extreme cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facility are possible. Further, foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent and, to the extent we market and sell our products internationally, we may be subject to rigorous international regulation in the future. In these circumstances, we rely significantly on our foreign independent distributors to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. Conducting successful clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators, support staff, and proximity of patients to clinical sites. 24 Table of Contents Development of sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols and data to demonstrate safety and efficacy are required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance and approval. Further, the FDA may require us to submit data on a greater number of patients than we originally anticipated and/or for a longer follow-up period or change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to our clinical trials. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the clearance or approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, FDA may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Even if our products are approved by regulatory authorities, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post-approval clinical data and labeling and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspections by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies. In particular, we and our suppliers are required to comply with the Quality System Regulations, or QSR, and Medical Device Directive regulations, which may include the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, standards, for the manufacture of our products and other regulations which cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of any product for which we obtain clearance or approval. Regulatory bodies enforce the QSR and ISO regulations through inspections. The failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines and civil penalties, delays in approving products, withdrawal or suspension of the approval of products, product recalls, operating restrictions, or unanticipated expenditures to address or defend regulatory actions. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, such clearance or approval may be subject to limitations on the intended uses for which the product may be marketed and reduce our potential to successfully commercialize the product and generate revenue from the product. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, labeling, training or other marketing or educational activities constitute promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we cease or modify our training educational, labeling or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our training educational, labeling or other promotional materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, healthcare regulation by federal and state governments could significantly impact our business. We have adopted comprehensive compliance programs to attempt to comply with these regulations. However, because of the breadth of these laws and regulations and the sometimes subjective nature of their application, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If our past or present operations, or those of our independent sales agents and distributors, are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other applicable governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal healthcare 25 Table of Contents programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the healthcare providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. The risk of being found to have violated such laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the procedures created with, and the technologies used in, our products. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not be approved, may not issue as patents in a form that will be advantageous to us, or may issue patents which may be subsequently successfully challenged by others and invalidated. In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. The patents we own may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage, and competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products which provide outcomes which are comparable to ours. Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our officers, employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of such agreements. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. However, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks, or we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. In the event a competitor infringes upon our intellectual property rights, enforcing our rights may be costly, difficult and time consuming and we may not have sufficient resources to enforce such rights. Any lawsuit, whether initiated by us to enforce our intellectual property rights or by a third party against us alleging infringement, may cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, and may divert our attention from our business and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. Patent litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is successfully asserted against us may require us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Our success will also depend in part on our not infringing patents issued to others, including our competitors and potential competitors. If our products are found to infringe the patents of others, our 26 Table of Contents development, manufacture and sale of such products could be severely restricted or prohibited. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio and unpatented proprietary technology to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our patent rights. A patent infringement suit or other infringement or misappropriation claim brought against us or any of our strategic partners or licensees may force us or any of our strategic partners or licensees to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property, unless that party grants us or any strategic partners or licensees rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, even if we, our strategic partners or our licensees are able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Also, there is the possibility that we may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. At December 31, 2010 our officers, directors and principal stockholders, each holding more than 5% of our common stock, collectively controlled approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, could potentially control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and our stockholders may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price paid for such shares. The price for shares of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant price fluctuations, which makes our common stock unsuitable for many investors. For example, for the three years ended December 31, 2010, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $17.24 per share to a low of $1.76 per share. At times, the fluctuations in the price of our common stock may have been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad fluctuations may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. Trading in our stock has historically been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2010 was approximately 45,000 shares. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. Moreover, the market price for shares of our common stock may be made more volatile because of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock. When trading volume is low, significant price movement can be caused by the trading in a relatively small number of shares. Volatility in our common stock could cause stockholders to incur substantial losses. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to remove 27 Table of Contents or replace management, engage in proxy contests and effect changes in control. The provisions of our charter documents include: • a classified board so that only one of the three classes of directors on our board of directors is elected each year; • procedures for advance notification of stockholder director nominations and proposals; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; • a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as our board of directors may determine. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 