D. Risk Factors An investment in the Common Shares of the Company must be considered speculative due to the nature of the Company’s business and the present stage of exploration of its non-producing mineral properties. In particular, the following risk factors apply: Risks Associated with Mineral Exploration The Company is Involved in the Resource Industry which is Highly Speculative and has Certain Inherent Exploration Risks which Could have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations 12 Table of Contents Resource exploration is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but also from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environment protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on investment capital. The Company’s Operations Contain Significant Uninsured Risks which Could Negatively Impact Profitability as the Company Maintains No Insurance Against its Operations The Company’s exploration of its mineral properties incurs certain risks, including unexpected or unusual operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes which could adversely affect operations and may result in liabilities. The Company currently maintains $5 million insurance for its properties and operations which may not cover larger liabilities or uninsured situations. If such larger liabilities or uninsured situations arise, they could reduce or eliminate the Company’s assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and a decline in the value of the Company’s securities. The Company Has No Known Reserves and No Economic Reserves May Exist on Its Properties Which Would have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations and Valuation Despite exploration work on its mineral claims, no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits have been established on any of the Company’s mineral properties. In addition, the Company is at the exploration stage on all of its properties and substantial additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits occur on the Company’s properties. Even in the event commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the exploration properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as metal prices. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the entity conducting such mineral exploration. The Company is an exploration stage company with no history of pre-tax profit and no income from its operations. There can be no assurance that the Company’s operations will be profitable in the future. The Company Has Not Surveyed Any of Its Properties and the Company Could Lose Title and Ownership of Its Properties which would have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations and Valuation 13 Table of Contents The Company has only done a preliminary legal survey of the boundaries of any of these properties, and therefore, in accordance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which these properties are situated, their existence and area could be in doubt. The Company has not obtained formal title reports on any of its properties and title may be in doubt. If title is disputed, the Company will have to defend its ownership through the courts. In the event of an adverse judgment, the Company would lose its property rights. The Mining Industry is Highly Competitive which could Restrict the Company’s Growth The Company competes with other corporations that may have greater resources. Such corporations could outbid the Company for potential projects or produce minerals at lower costs which would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. Mineral Operations are Subject to Market Forces Outside of the Company’s Control which could Negatively Impact the Company’s Operations The marketability of minerals, especially the price of gold, is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the entity involved in their mining and processing. These factors include market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, import, exports and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on costs of an operation and if significant enough, reduce the profitability of the operation and threaten its continuation. The Company is Subject to Substantial Government Regulatory Requirements which could cause a Restriction or Suspension of the Company’s Operations The Company’s exploration operations are affected to varying degrees by government regulations relating to resource operations, the acquisition of land, pollution control and environmental protection, safety, production and expropriation of property. Changes in these regulations or in their application are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its operations, business and results of operations. Failure to comply with the conditions set out in any permit or failure to comply with the applicable statutes and regulations may result in orders to cease or curtail operations or to install additional equipment. The Company may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of its operating or exploration activities. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, foreign exchange controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. Currently, the Company’s Canadian properties are subject to the jurisdiction of the federal laws of Canada, the provincial laws of British Columbia and the Northwest Territories, as well as local laws where they are located. In addition, the Company’s U.S. properties are subject to U.S. Federal laws, the state laws of Nevada and Oregon, as well as local laws where they are located. The Company’s Mexican property is subject to Mexican federal laws as well as local laws where it is located. Mineral exploration and mining may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its business. 14 Table of Contents On the Federal and Provincial level, the Company must comply with exploration permitting requirements which require sound operating and reclamation plans to be approved by the applicable government body prior to the start of exploration. Depending upon the type and extent of the exploration activities, the Company may be required to post reclamation bonds and/or assurances that the affected areas will be reclaimed. Currently, the Company has estimated $1,529,948 in reclamation liabilities for its properties. $1,000,000 has been deposited for the benefit of the Province of British Columbia until released or applied to reclamation costs. If the reclamation requires funds in addition to those already allocated, Seabridge could be forced to pay for the extra work and it could have a significant negative effect upon the Company’s financial position and operations. On the State and Provincial level, the government has jurisdiction over certain properties and requires their own permitting and compliance with applicable regulations. On the local level, regulations deal primarily with zoning, land use and specific building permits, as well as taxation and the impact of the Company’s operations on the existing population and local services. The Company is Subject to Substantial Environmental Requirements which could cause a Restriction or Suspension of Company Operations In connection with its operations and properties, the Company is subject to extensive and changing environmental legislation, regulation and actions. The Company cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation generally is toward stricter standards and this trend is likely to continue in the future. The recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require obtaining permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands lying within wetland areas, area providing for habitat for certain species or other protected areas. Compliance with more stringent laws and regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital outlays, which may materially affect the Company’s results of operations and business, or may cause material changes or delays in the Company’s intended activities. On the Federal, State and Provincial level, regulations deal with environmental quality and impacts upon air, water, soils, vegetation and wildlife, as well as historical and cultural resources. Approval must be received from the applicable bureau and/or department before exploration can begin, and will also conduct ongoing monitoring of operations. If operations result in negative effects upon the environment, government agencies will usually require the Company to provide remedial actions to correct the negative effects. 15 Table of Contents Specific to its U.S. properties, costs involved with complying with various government environmental regulations vary by anticipated operations. Typically, surface sampling does not require any permits. Agency review and approval for exploration drilling and access construction can vary from several hundred dollars to several thousands of dollars, depending upon the level of activity. Permitting and environmental compliance costs vary, depending upon the level of activities proposed and the sensitivity of the areas where mineral activities are proposed. As a general rule, these costs makeup 10% or less of the total cost amount of the program. The Company also may be required to post reclamation bonding and assurance that areas will be reclaimed after exploration. These bonds and guarantees range from approximately $1,000 on a small-scale exploratory drill program in Nevada to approximately $150,000 on an advanced exploration program in Oregon. At present, the Company has not estimated or allocated any funds for reclamation at its Courageous Lake property, nor have any specific environmental concerns been identified. However, the history of mining and exploration of the property by others may have caused certain environmental damage which will require cleanup funded by Seabridge as the current landholder. In addition, unidentified environmental deficiencies may exist on other of the Company’s properties. The discovery of and any required reclamation of any additional properties would likely have a negative effect on the Company’s operations and financial position. Financing Risks The Company is Likely to Require Additional Financing which Could Result in Substantial Dilution to Existing Shareholders and/or the Delay or Cessation of Operations The Company, while engaged in the business of exploiting mineral properties, has sufficient funds to undertake its planned current exploration projects. If the Company’s exploration programs are successful, additional financing will be required to develop the mineral properties identified and to place them into commercial production. The exploration of the Company’s mineral properties is, therefore, dependent upon the Company’s ability to obtain financing through the joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. Such sources of financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain such financing may result in delay or indefinite postponement of exploration work on the Company’s mineral properties, as well as the possible loss of such properties. Any transaction involving the issuance of previously authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock, or securities convertible into common stock, could result in dilution, possibly substantial, to present and prospective holders of common stock. These financings may be on terms less favorable to the Company than those obtained previously. The Company Has a History of Net Losses and Expects Losses to Continue for the Foreseeable Future The Company has had a history of losses and there is no assurance that it can reach profitability in the future. As of the end of the last fiscal year dated December 31, 2006, 16 Table of Contents the Company historical net loss totals $21,809,113. The Company will require significant additional funding to meet its business objectives. Capital will need to be available to help maintain and to expand exploration on the Company’s principal exploration property. The Company may not be able to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If equity financing is required, as expected, then such financings could result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient financing, the Company might have to dramatically slow exploration efforts and/or lose control of its projects. The Company has historically obtained the majority of its financing through the issuance of equity, there is no limit to the number of authorized common shares, and the Company has no current plans to obtain financing through means other than equity financing. The Company has a Lack of Cash Flow to Sustain Operations and Does Not Expect to Begin Receiving Operating Revenue in the Foreseeable Future None of the Company’s properties have advanced to the commercial production stage and the Company has no history of earnings or cash flow from operations. The Company has paid no dividends on its shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Historically, the only source of funds available to the Company has been through the sale of its common shares and convertible debt instruments. Any future additional equity financing would cause dilution to current stockholders. If the Company does not have sufficient capital for its operations, management would be forced to reduce or discontinue its activities which would likely have a negative effect on the stock price. The Company Operates in Foreign Countries and is Subject to Currency Fluctuations which could have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operating Results While engaged in the business of exploiting mineral properties, the Company’s operations outside of Canada, i.e. in the United States and Mexico, make it subject to foreign currency fluctuation as the Company’s accounts are conducted in Canadian dollars while certain expenses are numerated in US dollars and Mexican pesos. Such fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s financial positions and results. Management may not take any steps to address foreign currency fluctuations that will eliminate all adverse effects and, accordingly, the Company may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. Risks Relating to an Investment in the Securities of the Company The Market for the Company’s Stock has Been Subject to Volume and Price Volatility which Could Negatively Effect a Shareholder’s Ability to Buy or Sell the Company’s Shares The market for the common shares of the Company may be highly volatile for reasons both related to the performance of the Company or events pertaining to the industry (i.e., mineral price fluctuation/high production costs/accidents) as well as factors unrelated to the Company or its industry. In particular, market demand for products incorporating minerals in their manufacture fluctuates from one business cycle to the next, resulting in change of demand for the mineral and an attendant change in the price for the mineral. The Company’s common shares can be expected to be subject to volatility in both price and 17 Table of Contents volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding the Company’s business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. In recent years the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies such as the Company, have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, the shares of the Company’s common shares can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which the Company will have no control. Further, despite the existence of markets for trading the Company’s common shares in Canada and the United States, stockholders of the Company may be unable to sell significant quantities of common shares in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the stock. The Company has a Dependence Upon Key Management Employees, the Absence of Which Would Have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations The Company strongly depends on the business and technical expertise of its management and key personnel, including Rudi Fronk, President. There is little possibility that this dependence will decrease in the near term. As the Company’s operations expand, additional general management resources will be required. The Company may not be able to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and this would have a negative effect on the Company’s operations. The Company does not carry any formal services agreements between itself and its officers/directors. The Company does not carry any “Key Man” Life Insurance. Certain Officers and Directors May Have Conflicts of Interest Which Could have a Negative Effect on the Company’s Operations Certain of the directors and officers of the Company are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholders of other natural resource companies. While the Company was engaged in the business of exploiting mineral properties, such associations may have given rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. The directors of the Company are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and to disclose any interest that they may have in any project or opportunity of the Company. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict must disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in any project or opportunity, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at the time. The Company Could be Deemed a Passive Foreign Investment Company Which Could have Negative Consequences for U.S. Investors The Company could be classified as a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”) under the United States tax code. If the Company is declared a PFIC, then owners of the Company’s Common Stock who are U.S. taxpayers generally will be required to treat any so-called "excess distribution” received on its common shares, or any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, as ordinary income and to pay an interest charge 18 Table of Contents on a portion of such distribution or gain, unless the taxpayer makes a qualified electing fund ("QEF") election or a mark-to-market election with respect to the Company’s shares. A U.S. taxpayer who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of the Company’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which the Company is classified as a PFIC, whether or not the Company distributes any amounts to its shareholders. U.S. investors should consult with their tax advisors for advice as to the U.S. tax consequences of an investment in the Common Stock of the Company. U.S. Investors May Not Be Able to Enforce Their Civil Liabilities Against The Company or Its Directors, Controlling Persons and Officers It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against the Company. The Company is a corporation incorporated in Canada under the Canada Business Corporation Act. A majority of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of Canada and a substantial portion of the Company’s assets and its subsidiaries are located outside of the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process in the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under United States securities laws. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act. Forward Looking Statements Certain Statements presented herein contain certain forward-looking statements relating but not limited to the Company’s expectations, intentions, plans and beliefs. Forward-looking information can often be identified by forward-looking words such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “expect”, “goal”, “plan”, “intend”, “estimate”, “may” and “will” or similar words suggesting future outcomes, or other expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, intentions or statements about future events or performance. Forward-looking information may include reserve and resource estimates, estimates of future production, unit costs, costs of capital projects and timing of commencement of operations, and is based on current expectations that involve a number of business risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to, failure to establish estimated resources and reserves, the grade and recovery of ore which is mined varying from estimates, capital and operating costs varying significantly from estimates, delays in obtaining or failures to obtain required governmental, environmental or other project approvals, inflation, changes in exchange rates, fluctuations in commodity prices, delays in the development of projects related to accidents, equipment break downs, weather or other difficulties, and other factors. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. Potential shareholders and prospective investors should be aware that these statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause 19 Table of Contents actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements. Shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking information. By its nature, forward-looking information involves numerous assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, both general and specific, that contribute to the possibility that the predictions, forecasts, projections and various future events will not occur. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking information whether as a result of new information, future events or other such factors which affect this information, except as required by law. Item 