ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Factors that could affect our results or performance include the following: MSUSA may not achieve the expected synergies from the combination of former Ispat Inland Inc. into the former International Steel Group Inc. MSUSA was formed at the end of 2005 by merging, Ispat Inland Inc., into a company with limited operating history, Mittal Steel USA ISG Inc. (formerly International Steel Group, Inc.) Integrating the operations is a complex and ongoing process. Successful integration and the achievement of synergies requires, among other things, the satisfactory coordination of business development and procurement efforts, manufacturing improvements and employee retention, hiring and training policies, as well as the alignment of products, sales and marketing operations and information and software systems. The diversion of the attention of the combined company’s management to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could result in higher integration costs and lower savings than expected. Under-funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans and the need to make substantial cash contributions to pension plans, which may increase in the future, may reduce the cash available for MSUSA’s business. Our pension plans are currently under-funded. At December 31, 2005, the value of our pension plan assets was $2,160 million, while the projected benefit obligation was $2,955 million, resulting in a deficit of $795 million. We also have an under-funded postretirement benefit obligation of $951 million relating to life insurance and medical benefits as of December 31, 2005. See Note 10 to the MSUSA Consolidated Financial Statements. The funded status of MSUSA’s pension plan has been adversely affected in the last few years by a number of factors, including low interest rates, which have affected investment returns and discount rate assumptions, as well as the weak performance of the equity markets. This has also had an impact on required future cash funding requirements. MSUSA is also required to make significant cash contributions pursuant to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA. Assuming modestly rising interest rates and reasonable market returns, the total of these contribution requirements could exceed $500 million over the next three years and could be significantly higher depending on future asset performance, the levels of interest rates used to determine ERISA minimum funding requirements, actuarial assumptions and experience, union negotiated changes and future government regulations. Total cash contributions made to MSUSA’s pension plan were $600 million from 1998 through December 31, 2005. The contribution required and made was $112 million and $175 million in 2004 and 2005, respectively. 12 Table of Contents MSUSA’s funding obligations depend upon future asset performance, the level of interest rates used to measure ERISA minimum funding levels, actuarial assumptions and experience, union negotiated changes and future government regulation. Due to the large number of variables that determine pension funding requirements, which are difficult to predict, as well as any legislative action, future cash funding requirements for MSUSA’s pension plans and other post-retirement benefit plans could be significantly higher than amounts currently estimated. These funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on MSUSA’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. MSUSA may encounter supply shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials, energy and transportation. Steel production requires substantial amounts of raw materials and energy, including iron ore, scrap, electricity, natural gas, coal and coke. Any prolonged interruption in the supply of raw materials or energy, or substantial increases in their costs, could adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of steel companies. The availability and prices of raw materials may be negatively affected by: • new laws or regulations; • suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers; • interruptions in production by suppliers; • accidents or other similar events at suppliers’ premises or along the supply chain; • changes in exchange rates; • consolidation in steel-related industries; • worldwide price fluctuations and other factors; and • availability and cost of transportation. In addition, energy costs, including the cost of electricity and natural gas, make up a substantial portion of the cost of goods sold by steel companies. The price of energy has varied significantly in the past several years and may vary significantly in the future largely as a result of market conditions and other factors beyond the control of steel companies, including significant increases in oil prices. In addition, natural gas prices in North America reached as high as $15 per mmbtu in 2005 versus a high of $9 per mmbtu in 2004. Because the production of direct reduced iron and the re-heating of steel involve the use of significant amounts of natural gas, steel companies are sensitive to the price of natural gas. Further, global developments, particularly the dramatic increase in the demand for materials and inputs used in steel manufacturing from China, may cause severe shortages and/or substantial price increases of key raw materials and ocean transportation capacity. Inability to recoup such cost increases from increases in the selling prices of steel companies’ products, or inability to cater to their customers’ demands because of non-availability of key raw materials or other inputs, may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of steel companies. While MSUSA has been able to procure sufficient supplies of raw materials to meet its production needs, there can be no assurance that it will be able to procure adequate supplies in the future. In addition, a substantial portion of MSUSA’s raw materials are procured under contracts that are either short-term or are subject to periodic price negotiations. Any prolonged interruption, discontinuation or other disruption in the supply of raw materials or energy, or substantial increases in their costs, could adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of MSUSA. MSUSA may face significant price and other forms of competition from other steel producers, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Generally, the markets in which steel companies conduct business are highly competitive. Increased competition could cause MSUSA to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The global steel industry has historically suffered from substantial over-capacity. Excess capacity in some of the products sold by MSUSA will intensify price competition for such products. This could require MSUSA to reduce the price for its products and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. MSUSA competes primarily on the basis of quality and the ability to meet customers’ product specifications, delivery schedules and price. Some of the competitors of MSUSA may: § benefit from greater capital resources; § have different technologies; § have lower raw material and energy costs; and § have lower employee post-retirement benefit costs. In addition, the competitive position of MSUSA within the global steel industry may be affected by, among other things: § the recent trend toward consolidation amongst competitors in the steel industry, particularly in Europe and the United States; 13 Table of Contents § exchange rate fluctuations that may make the products of MSUSA less competitive in relation to the products of steel companies based in other countries; and § the development of new technologies for the production of steel and steel-related products. MSUSA is susceptible to the cyclicality of the steel industry. The steel industry is highly cyclical and is affected significantly by general economic conditions and other factors such as worldwide production capacity, fluctuations in steel imports/exports and tariffs. Steel prices are sensitive to a number of supply and demand factors. Steel markets recently have been experiencing larger and more pronounced cyclical fluctuations. This trend, combined with the upward pressure on costs of key inputs, mainly metallics and energy, presents an increasing challenge for steel producers. The key drivers for maintaining a competitive position and good financial performance in this challenging environment are product differentiation, customer service, cost reduction and cash management. MSUSA experienced benefits in 2005 from a continued increase in global demand and prices for steel. In the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005, world crude steel production increased by 6.7% to 1,129 million metric ton compared to the same period in 2004. MSUSA’s average selling prices increased also for the same period. The increases experienced in 2005 may not be repeated in future years. The volatility and the length and nature of business cycles affecting the steel industry have become increasingly unpredictable, and the recurrence of another major downturn in the industry may have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of steel companies, including MSUSA. Steel companies are susceptible to changes in governmental policies and international economic conditions. Governmental, political and economic developments relating to inflation, interest rates, taxation, currency fluctuations, social or political instability, diplomatic relations, international conflicts and other factors may adversely affect the business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of international steel companies. MSUSA has not, and currently does not intend to obtain, political risk insurance in any country in which it conducts its business. Competition from other materials may have a material adverse effect on MSUSA’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Additional substitutes for steel products could adversely affect future market prices and demand for steel products. MSUSA could experience labor disputes that could disrupt operations. A substantial majority of the employees of MSUSA are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Strikes or work stoppages could occur prior to, or during the negotiations leading to new collective bargaining agreements, during wage and benefits negotiations or, occasionally, during other periods for other reasons. Any such breakdown leading to work stoppage and disruption of operations could have an adverse effect on the operations and financial results of MSUSA. Additionally, many of the contractors working at MSUSA’s operating subsidiaries’ plants employ workers who are represented by various trade unions. Disruptions with these contractors could also have a material adverse effect on MSUSA’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Equipment downtime or shutdowns could adversely affect MSUSA’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steel-making equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and such equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns. MSUSA’s manufacturing plants have experienced, and may in the future experience, plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. Such disruptions could have an adverse effect on MSUSA’s operations, customer service levels and financial results. The income tax liability of MSUSA may substantially increase if the tax laws and regulations change or become subject to adverse interpretations or inconsistent enforcement or if MSUSA is unable to utilize certain tax benefits. 14 Table of Contents Taxes payable by MSUSA are substantial and include profit taxes, payroll-related taxes, property taxes and other taxes. MSUSA receives certain tax benefits (such as tax loss carryforwards), which result in temporary reductions or limitations on the total tax liability of the relevant operating subsidiary. The loss of these benefits on their scheduled expiration or as a result of a failure to comply with conditions imposed in connection with the acquisition of the relevant operating subsidiary may cause a corresponding increase in the tax liability. Steel companies are subject to stringent environmental regulations, and MSUSA may be required to spend considerable amounts of money in order to comply with such regulations. MSUSA is subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws and regulations, as interpreted by relevant agencies and the courts, impose increasingly stringent environmental protection standards regarding, among other things, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination. The costs of complying with environmental requests, including participation in assessments and remediation of sites, could be significant and failure to comply could result in the assessment of civil and criminal penalties, the suspension of operations and lawsuits by private parties. In addition, these standards can create the risk of substantial environmental liabilities, including liabilities associated with divested assets and past activities. Currently, MSUSA is involved in a number of compliance efforts and legal proceedings concerning environmental matters. MSUSA is also conducting significant remedial works at several of its facilities to address environmental liabilities as part of the settlement of these actions and in some cases in the absence of any governmental action. For further discussion see Note 12 to the MSUSA Consolidated Financial Statements. MSUSA has established reserves for environmental remediation activities and liabilities. However, environmental matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and there can be no assurance that these amounts will be adequate, especially in light of potential changes in environmental conditions or the discovery of previously unknown environmental conditions, the risk of governmental orders to carry out additional compliance on certain sites not initially included in remediation in progress, and the potential liability of MSUSA to remediate sites for which provisions have not been previously established. Such future developments could result in increased environmental costs and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on MSUSA’s financial position and results of operations. MSUSA’s insurance policies provide limited coverage, potentially leaving it uninsured against some business risks. The occurrence of an event that is uninsurable or not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on MSUSA’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. MSUSA maintains comprehensive insurance on all property and equipment in amounts believed to be consistent with industry practices but it may not be fully insured against some business risks. MSUSA’s insurance policies cover physical loss or damage to its property and equipment on a reinstatement basis arising from a number of specified risks and certain consequential losses, including business interruption arising from the occurrence of an insured event under the policies. Under these policies, damages and losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and windstorms, are also covered. MSUSA also maintains various other types of insurance, such as workmen’s compensation insurance and marine insurance. Notwithstanding the insurance coverage that MSUSA and its subsidiaries carry, the occurrence of an accident that causes losses in excess of limits specified under the policy, or losses arising from events not covered by their insurance policies, could have a material adverse effect on MSUSA’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Product liability claims could adversely affect MSUSA’s operations. MSUSA sells products to major manufacturers who are engaged to sell a wide range of end products. Furthermore, MSUSA’s products are also sold to, and used in, certain safety-critical applications. If MSUSA were to sell steel that is inconsistent with the specifications of the order or the requirements of the application, significant disruptions to the customer’s production lines could result. There could also be significant consequential damages resulting from the use of such products. MSUSA has a limited amount of product liability insurance coverage and a major claim for damages related to products sold could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Significant expenditures and senior management time may be required with respect to MSUSA’s internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 15 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the regulations of the SEC require senior executive and senior financial officers of MSUSA to assess on a regular basis the internal controls for financial reporting, evaluate the effectiveness of such internal controls and disclose any material weaknesses in such internal controls. MSUSA’s external auditors will also be required to provide an attestation of management’s evaluation. MSUSA requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, which we may be unable to provide. Our business strategy will require additional substantial capital investment. We require capital for, among other purposes, managing acquired assets, acquiring new equipment, maintaining the condition of our existing equipment, and maintaining compliance with environmental laws and regulations. To the extent that cash generated internally is not sufficient to fund capital requirements, we will require additional debt financing. However, this type of financing may not be available or, if available, may not be on satisfactory terms. Future debt financings, if available, may result in increased interest and amortization expense and increased leverage. In addition, future debt financings may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we fail to generate or obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. MSUSA’s debt level may limit its flexibility in managing its business. At December 31, 2005, MSUSA had outstanding $ 3,133 in aggregate principal amount of debt consisting of $863 long-term debt and capital lease obligations and $2,270 of related party debt. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Based on our current level of operations and anticipated cost savings and operating improvements, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowing from our parent company will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule, or that future borrowing will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We have variable rate indebtedness that subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, resulting in a decrease in our net income. 16 Table of Contents 