Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report in evaluating our company and our business. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a large percentage of our revenue from sales of HDTVs, particularly LCD HDTVs, and any decline in demand for these products could severely harm our ability to generate revenue. We derive a large percentage of our revenue from HDTVs, particularly LCD HDTVs. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these products, whether as a result of consumer preferences, market demand, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, budget constraints of consumers, or other factors. If our revenue derived from these products were to decline significantly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. We are also subject to competition from competing HDTV technologies, such as plasma, digital micromirror device, and high-temperature polysilicon technologies, as well as other emerging technologies or technologies that may be introduced in the future. The success of competing technologies could substantially reduce the demand for our products. We will require significant additional capital to fund the expansion of our business. To support our rapidly expanding business, we must have sufficient working capital to fund our receivables and inventory and continue to make significant investments in product design and development, marketing, research and development, equipment, and facilities. Additionally, our suppliers and contract manufacturers (collectively our “supply chain partners”) must have significant capital and credit availability to fund the procurement of key components in order to supply us with sufficient quantities of product. Our lack of capital and our supply chain partners’s lack of capital to date has constrained our business and negatively impacted our profitability. Recent credit market turmoil in Asia has significantly reduced the amount of credit available to our supply chain partners. If this market turmoil continues for an extended period and we are unable to compensate for its effects by adding new supply chain partners or obtaining other sources of product, we may be forced to curtail our growth. We may need additional equity or debt financing to provide the funds required to expand our business. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses, may contain covenants that restrict the operation of our business, and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing, or debt financing that is convertible into equity, could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. Our revenue depends on sales by various retailers and distributors, some of which account for a significant portion of our sales. Our HDTV revenue depends on our sales through various leading national consumer electronics retailers, such as Circuit City, CompUSA, Fry’s Electronics, K-Mart, Office Depot, Sears, and Target; regional consumer electronics retailers, such as ABC Appliance and J&R Electronics; online/television retailers, such as Amazon.com and Buy.com; and high-end audio/video distributors, such as BDI Laguna and D&H Distributor Co. Our HDTV revenue in China depends on our Chinese distributor, South China House of Technology. Our digital imaging product revenue depends on our sales through specialty stores, including Adorama, B&H, Ritz Camera, and Samy’s Camera; mass merchants, including Brandsmart, CompUSA, Fry’s Electronics, QVC, Radio Shack, and Wal-Mart; drug store chains, including Fred Meyer, Longs Drug Store, and Meijer; and online merchants, including Overstock.com, Shopko.com, Target.com, and Wal-Mart.com. These sales channels involve a number of special risks, including the following: • we may be unable to secure and maintain favorable relationships with retailers and distributors; • we may be unable to control the timing of delivery of our products to end-user consumers; 14 Table of Contents • our retailers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; • our retailers and distributors may terminate their relationships with us at any time; and • our retailers and distributors market and distribute competing products. South China House of Technology, our HDTV distributor in China, accounted for $335.9 million, or 48.2%, of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. South China House of Technology and CompUSA accounted for $32.4 million, or 16.8%, and $25.3 million, or 13.1%, respectively, of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Our revenue would likely decline if we lost one of these customers or if one of these customers were to significantly reduce its orders for any reason. Because our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts, we cannot assure you that our customers will continue to purchase our products at current levels, or at all. We have significant accounts receivable from our largest distributor. We have significant accounts receivable from South China House of Technology, whom we provide with 120-day payment terms and typically extend these payment terms during peak selling periods in order to enable South China House of Technology to collect accounts receivable from the retailers of our products. Although we have never suffered a loss on any account receivable from South China House of Technology, our accounts receivable from South China House of Technology at times are substantial, representing $138.1 million, or approximately 65.7% of our net accounts receivable and due from factor, at fiscal year end June 30, 2007. We face competition from a number of the world’s leading consumer electronics companies. We compete with a number of the world’s leading HDTV suppliers, including JVC, LG Electronics, Panasonic, Phillips, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Thompson, and Toshiba. Other companies, such as Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Gateway, and ViewSonic, could directly or indirectly compete with our HDTVs. We also compete with a number of the world’s largest suppliers of digital imaging products, including Canon, Casio, JVC, Kodak, Minolta, Nokia, Olympus, Panasonic, Sanyo, and Sony. Each of these and certain of our other competitors have greater brand name recognition and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than we possess, which afford them competitive advantages over us. Our competitors could introduce products with superior features and functionality at lower prices than our products and could also bundle existing or new products with other more established products in order to compete with us. Our competitors could also gain market share by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with other competitors. Finally, we may face additional sources of competition in the future because new distribution methods offered by the Internet and electronic commerce have removed many of the barriers to entry historically faced by start-up companies in the consumer electronics industry. Any of the foregoing effects could cause our revenue to decline, which would harm our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully in selling HDTVs depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in developing and producing new products; • our ability to address the needs of our customers; • the pricing, quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, and diversity of our products; • our ability to effectively market our brands and products; • the quality of our customer service; • our efficiency of production; • product or technology introductions by our competitors; and • foreign currency devaluations, especially in Asian currencies, such as the Japanese yen, the Korean won, and the Taiwanese dollar, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our products. 15 Table of Contents Because we believe technological and functional distinctions among competing products in our markets are perceived by many end-user consumers to be relatively modest, effectiveness in marketing and manufacturing are particularly important competitive factors in our business. We rely on contract manufacturers and assemblers for a portion of our production requirements, and any interruptions of these arrangements could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, and result in our inability to deliver our HDTV products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We outsource to various contract manufacturers and assemblers the production requirements for our HDTVs and digital imaging products. Kolin is our principal contract manufacturer and our primary source of the electronic components and subassemblies of our LCD HDTV products. Foxconn is our principal contract manufacturer of our digital imaging products. We rely on our contract manufacturers and assemblers to maintain high levels of productivity and satisfactory delivery schedules. The loss of our relationships with our contract manufacturers or assemblers, particularly Kolin or Foxconn, or their failure to conduct their manufacturing and assembly services for us as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness, could adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, the resulting decline in revenue and revenue potential would harm our business. Securing new contract manufacturers and assemblers is time-consuming and might result in unforeseen manufacturing, supply, and operational problems. We do not have long-term arrangements with any of our contract manufacturers or assemblers that guarantee production capacity, prices, lead times, or delivery schedules. Our contract manufacturers and assemblers serve many other customers, including certain of our competitors, a number of which have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, our contract manufacturers and assemblers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate services for us on short notice. Any such problems could result in our inability to deliver our products in a timely manner and adversely affect our operating results. Shortages of components and materials necessary to the production of our products may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers and assemblers to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary for the production of our products could result in delayed sales or lost orders, increased inventory, and underutilized manufacturing capacity. For example, we experienced production delays when our former supplier of light engines experienced quality and delivery issues. Many of the materials used in the production of our products are available only from a limited number of foreign suppliers. As a result, we are subject to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Materials and components for some of our major products may not be available in sufficient quantities to satisfy our needs because of shortages of these materials and components. Our OEM customers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining from others the materials necessary to produce their products into which our LCoS microdisplays are incorporated. We depend on AU Optronics, Chi Mei Optoelectronic, LG.Philips LCD, and Samsung for LCD panels and on Kolin for the electronic components and subassemblies for our LCD HDTV products. We depend on Shanghai-based Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, for the fabrication of silicon wafers; Taiwan-based United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, for application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs; Pixelworks, Silicon Optix, AMD, and Zoran for video processing integrated circuits; OSRAM for lamps; Toppan for screens; and various Asian suppliers for printed circuit board assembly and remote controls for our HDTV products. We rely on Foxconn to procure the materials used in the manufacture of our digital imaging products. We also depend on UMC for the fabrication of silicon wafers and ASICs for our near-to-eye microdisplay products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these suppliers. As a result, none of them is obligated to supply us for any specific period, in any specific quantity, or at any specific price, except as provided in purchase orders from time to time. The termination of our arrangements with any of these suppliers, or their inability or unwillingness to provide us with the necessary amount or quality of supplies on a timely basis or at appropriate prices, would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and ship our products until alternative sources of supply could be arranged. We may not be able to secure alternative arrangements. 16 Table of Contents If we do not accurately forecast our needs for components and materials, we may be forced to make inventory adjustments, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We place orders for components, determine production, and plan inventory in advance based on our forecast of consumer demand, which is highly volatile and difficult to predict. Inaccurate estimation of our requirements could lead to a surplus or shortage of components or finished inventory. We may experience a shortage of LCD panels, which may result in our inability to meet demand for our LCD HDTVs, or a surplus of LCD panels that may result in the recording of losses should LCD panel prices decline. We consume a large volume of parts and components for our products, and market fluctuations may cause a shortage of parts and components and may affect our production or the cost of goods sold. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by supply or inventory shortages or inventory adjustments that, as a result of efforts to reduce inventory by temporarily halting production or by reducing the price of goods, will lead to an increase in the ratio of cost of sales to sales. We write down the value of our inventory when components or products have become obsolete, when inventory exceeds the amount expected to be used, or when the value of the inventory is otherwise recorded at a higher value than net realizable value. Such inventory adjustments can have a material adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. We have only recently achieved profitability, and we may be unable to sustain profitability in future periods. We achieved profitability on an annual basis for the first time in fiscal year 2007. We had net income of $29.8 million in fiscal year 2007, but we may be unable to maintain profitability in future periods. We incurred net losses of $18.9 million in fiscal year 2006, and $17,000 in fiscal year 2005. Our ability to maintain profitability depends on a number of factors, including component pricing, market acceptance of our HDTVs, and other factors set forth elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. We must effectively manage our growth. The failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our operations. We have experienced rapid growth recently, and we expect our growth to continue in the near term. Our ability to manage our planned growth effectively will require us to do the following: • enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; • expand our international resources; • expand our facilities and equipment; and • successfully hire, train, and motivate additional employees, including the technical personnel necessary to operate our production facility in Arizona. We may not realize the benefits we expected from the merger between Brillian Corporation and Syntax Groups Corporation or our acquisition of Vivitar. The integration of the businesses of Brillian, Syntax Groups, and Vivitar will be complex, time-consuming, and expensive and may disrupt the combined business. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize any benefits or synergies from the merger and the acquisition, including our planned revitalization of the Vivitar brand. These challenges include the timely, efficient, and successful execution of a number of factors, including the following: • integrating the business, operations, and technologies of the companies; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • retaining existing customers of each company and attracting additional customers; • retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems; and 17 Table of Contents • meeting the challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs. The inability to manage successfully the substantially larger and internationally diverse organization, or any significant delay in achieving successful management, could have a material adverse effect on us and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. Integration will involve considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include the following: • the potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of our management; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of the operations, technology, and other resources of the two companies; • our ability to leverage the Vivitar brand and distribution network; • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers, and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of our businesses; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with the merger and the combined operations. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration. The inability to integrate successfully the operations, technology, and personnel of our businesses, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on us and on the market price of our common stock. Our operations and sales in foreign countries expose us to a variety of risks. Most of our contract manufacturers and assemblers are located abroad, and we and our contract manufacturers and assemblers purchase certain materials from international sources. Purchasing supplies and manufacturing and selling products internationally expose us to various economic, political, and other risks, including the following: • difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating an international operation; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • burdens and costs of compliance with multiple and sometimes conflicting laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • imposition of governmental controls, including trade and employment restrictions and restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and difficulties in hedging foreign currency transaction exposures; • economic instability, such as higher interest rates and inflation, which could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain financing for consumer electronics products or which could make our products more expensive in those countries; • employment and severance issues, including possible employee turnover or labor unrest; • overlap or conflict of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • potential loss of proprietary information as a result of piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; 18 Table of Contents • limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenue from international operations if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Asia and in other periods in other countries; • costs and delays associated with developing our products in multiple languages; and • political unrest, war, terrorism, or actual or perceived health risks in areas in which we do business. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, changes in the current tariff structures, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, limitations on imports or exports, or the expropriation of private enterprises could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell products in foreign markets and to purchase materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of our products to our U.S. customers. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and bill and collect most of our sales in U.S. dollars, we collect a portion of our revenue in non-U.S. currencies including a majority of our revenue from digital imaging products. In the future, customers may increase their payments in non-U.S. currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. Our business depends on new products and technologies. We operate in rapidly changing industries. Technological advances, the introduction of new products, changing consumer tastes, and new design and manufacturing techniques could adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to the changing conditions. As a result, we will be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to the following: • designing and developing new products and product enhancements that appeal to consumers; • meeting the expectations of our sales channel customers and end-user consumers in terms of product design, product cost, performance, and service; • responding to changing consumer tastes; • expanding our manufacturing resources; • continuing research and development activities on existing and potential products; • engaging additional engineering and other technical personnel; • purchasing advanced design, production, and test equipment; and • maintaining and enhancing our technological capabilities. We may be unable to recover any expenditures we make relating to one or more new products or technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our products, sales channels, or technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to provide new products that compare favorably on the basis of time to introduction, cost, and performance with the products of competitive suppliers and evolving technologies. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including the following: • innovative development of new products and technologies; • efficient, timely, and cost-effective manufacture of our products; 19 Table of Contents • the acceptance of our products and technologies; and • utilization of advances in technology. Our future success depends on our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing, acquiring, and introducing new products and product updates on a timely basis. We must also extend the operation of our products to new formats and keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. We intend to commit substantial resources to developing new products, product features, and technological advances in the HDTV market. This market is relatively new, and industry standards for the HDTV market are evolving and changing. If the HDTV market does not develop as anticipated, or if demand for our products in this market does not materialize or occurs more slowly than we expect, we will have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient revenue, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We must protect our intellectual property and could be subject to infringement claims by others. We believe that our success depends in part on protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We seek to protect certain aspects of our technology under trade secret laws, which afford only limited protection. We face risks associated with our intellectual property, including the following: • intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights; • third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patents issued to us; • rights granted under patents issued to us may not provide competitive advantages to us; • unauthorized parties may obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights; • others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to us; and • effective protection of intellectual property rights may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries in which we operate. We may not be able to obtain effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection in every country in which our products are produced or sold. We may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement and such action may be unsuccessful. In addition, we may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation. Third parties could claim that we are infringing their patents or other intellectual property rights. We have been subject to such claims in the past, and we expect we will increasingly be subject to license offers and infringement claims if our sales and market share continue to grow. In the event that a third party alleges that we are infringing its rights, we may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms from the third party, if at all, or the third party may commence litigation against us. Litigation can be very expensive and can distract our management time and attention, which could adversely affect our business. Any intellectual property litigation could compel us to do one or more of the following: • pay damages (including the potential for treble damages), license fees, or royalties (including royalties for past periods) to the party claiming infringement; • stop licensing products or providing services that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain a license from the owner of the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • redesign the challenged technology, which could be time-consuming and costly, or not be accomplished. 20 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the consumer electronics industry may cause substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. The consumer electronics industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, intense competition, and production overcapacity. In addition, the consumer electronics industry is cyclical in nature. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results, at least in part because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. We make significant decisions, including production schedules, component procurement commitments, facility requirements, personnel needs, and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of our sales channel customers’ requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for our products reduce our ability to estimate accurately the future requirements of those customers. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected as a result of the failure to obtain anticipated orders and deferrals or cancellations of purchase commitments because of changes in customer requirements. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross margins and operating results. On occasion, our sales channel customers may require rapid increases in the supply of our products, which can stress our resources and reduce operating margins. Although we have had a net increase in our manufacturing resources over the past few years, we may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands or to meet the requirements for specific products. Our operating results may have significant periodic and seasonal fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of the commitments of our customers, other factors may contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: • market acceptance of our products; • the seasonal nature of our sales; • product introductions or enhancements by us and our competitors; • pricing and availability of competitive products; • effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • the timing and volume of orders relative to our capacity; • evolution in the life cycles of products; • timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • product mix; • changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions; • the cancellation or deferral of product purchases as a result of weak or uncertain economic and industry conditions or the anticipation of new products or product updates by us or our competitors; • changes in the competitive landscape as a result of mergers, acquisitions, or strategic alliances that could allow our competitors to gain market share; • the unpredictability of the timing and magnitude of our sales through direct sales channels and indirect sales channels; 21 Table of Contents • changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; and • the possibility that our business will be adversely affected as a result of the threat of terrorism or military actions taken by the United States or its allies. You should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue or orders in any given quarter, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses quickly in response. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue or orders could have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or unforeseen failures, which could lead to an increase in our warranty claims and costs, a loss of customers, or a decline in market acceptance of our products. Our products are complex and may contain undetected errors or experience unforeseen failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. These errors could cause us to incur significant warranty and re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Defects could also lead to liability for defective products as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. We also may agree to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. A successful product liability claim could require us to make significant damage payments. Our LCoS products may not achieve commercial success or widespread market acceptance. A key element of our business involves the ongoing commercialization of our LCoS microdisplay technology. Our LCoS HDTVs have only recently become available to consumers and may not achieve widespread market acceptance or demand as a result of a variety of factors, including the following: • larger form factor; • consumer tastes; • competition with products utilizing other technologies; • technological complexities in terms of manufacturing processes; • difficulties with other suppliers of components for the products; • price considerations; • lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products; and • unfavorable comparisons with products of others. Various target markets for our LCoS microdisplays, including LCoS HDTVs, LCoS home theaters, and near-to-eye microdisplays, are uncertain, may be slow to develop, or could utilize competing technologies, especially high-temperature polysilicon and digital micromirror devices. Many manufacturers have well-established positions in these markets. Penetrating this market will require us to offer an improved value, higher performance proposition to existing technology. We must provide our OEM customers with lower cost, higher performance microdisplays for their products in these markets. The failure of any of our target markets to develop, or our failure to penetrate these markets, would impede our sales growth. Even if our LCoS HDTVs successfully meet their price and performance goals, our sales channel customers may not achieve success in selling our LCoS HDTVs. We previously experienced low manufacturing yields in commencing production of LCoS microdisplays, and our business depends on our ability to maintain satisfactory manufacturing yields. The design and manufacture of microdisplays are new and highly complex processes that are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the 22 Table of Contents materials used, and the performance of personnel and equipment. As a result of these factors, we have previously experienced low manufacturing yields in producing LCoS microdisplays. These issues could continue, and we may in the future encounter lower than desired manufacturing yields as we manufacture LCoS microdisplays in higher volumes, which could result in the delay of the ramp-up to high-volume LCoS manufacturing production. A return to lower than expected manufacturing yields could significantly and adversely affect our operating margins. Although we added additional equipment to our Arizona manufacturing facility in the last several years for manufacturing LCoS microdisplays, the high-volume manufacture of LCoS microdisplays will require us to overcome numerous challenges, including the following: • the availability of a sufficient quantity of quality materials; • the implementation of new manufacturing techniques; • the incorporation of new handling procedures; • the maintenance of clean manufacturing environments; and • the ability to master precise tolerances in the manufacturing process. Our Arizona facility and its high-volume LCoS microdisplay manufacturing line are important to our LCoS success. We currently produce all of our LCoS microdisplays on our high-volume manufacturing line at our Arizona facility. This facility also houses our principal research, development, engineering, design, and certain managerial operations. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of this facility for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to produce our LCoS microdisplays and to provide technical and manufacturing support for our customers. Our executive officers and key personnel are critical to our business, and these officers and personnel may not remain with us in the future. Our operations depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management, technical, and sales personnel, especially Vincent F. Sollitto, Jr., our Chief Executive Officer, and James Ching Hua Li, our President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to add key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is very strong, particularly for engineering and other technical personnel. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. Although we maintain employment, non-competition, and nondisclosure covenants with certain key personnel, we do not currently have any key person life insurance covering any officer or employee or employment agreements with most of our employees. Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. We plan to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand our product offerings, expand the breadth of our markets and sales channels, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. Our experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies is limited. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, products, or services with our own; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 23 Table of Contents • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees and customers of purchased organizations; • increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and • risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in future acquisitions. These risks will be increased in connection with any foreign acquisitions that we may make as a result of, among other factors, language barriers, cultural differences, difficulties in conducting due diligence, differing management and accounting standards, and varying legal frameworks. Our acquisition strategy entails reviewing and potentially reorganizing acquired business operations, corporate infrastructure and systems, and financial controls. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired businesses with our own operations or managing acquired businesses profitably without substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. If the benefits of the merger with Syntax Groups and the acquisition of Vivitar are not achieved, our financial results could be adversely affected. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we are accounting for those transactions using the purchase method of accounting. As a result, we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in those transactions. We had unamortized intangible assets acquired in those transactions of $36.4 million at fiscal year end June 30, 2007. We will incur amortization expense related to those assets of approximately $3.0 million per year for each of fiscal years 2008 thru 2012. In addition, to the extent the value of intangible assets or goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. We are subject to governmental regulations. Our operations are subject to certain federal, state, and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental, waste management, health, and safety matters. We could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable laws and incur substantial costs from complying with existing, new, modified, or more stringent requirements. For example, several states have either enacted (e.g. Minnesota, Washington and Maine) or are considering legislation to pass the cost of recycling various electronic devices/waste to the manufacturers that are currently selling televisions and other electronic products. These costs will impact us as these laws are implemented throughout the United States and in other parts of the world. In addition, the FCC has notified us that importation declarations indicate that we may have violated certain FCC rules with respect to the transition requirements for selling televisions containing high-definition tuners. In addition, our past, current, or future operations may give rise to claims of exposure by employees or the public or to other claims or liabilities relating to environmental, waste management, or health and safety concerns. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our effective tax rate is directly affected by the relative proportions of revenue and income before taxes in the various domestic and international jurisdictions in which we operate. We are also subject to changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings. Our effective tax rate is also influenced by the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions, non-recurring charges, 24 Table of Contents and tax assessments against acquired entities with respect to tax periods prior to the acquisition. These matters may cause fluctuations between reporting periods in which the acquisition, assessment, or settlement takes place. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: • variations in our quarterly results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock; • changes in laws affecting HDTVs; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole. In addition, stocks of technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to these companies’ operating performance. Public announcements by technology companies concerning, among other things, their performance, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. We have determined that our internal controls over financial reporting are currently ineffective. The lack of effective internal controls could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to carry out our strategic business plan. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in our past, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. For example, as more fully described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management concluded that as of June 30, 2007 we did not maintain effective internal controls over our inventory process, revenue process, income tax provision process, and financial statement close procedures. Our management determined these control deficiencies were considered a material weakness that could result in a material misstatement to annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2007 using the criteria set forth in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). We expect the remediation of these material weaknesses to occur during fiscal year 2008. A failure to implement and maintain effective internal control to correct the deficiencies identified above, could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and our stock price, and we could be subject to stockholder litigation. 25 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of us, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire us to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan was designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of us, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of us. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in control or management of our company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 