Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Xyrem is our largest selling product, and, if we are not able to maintain or increase sales of Xyrem, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Xyrem is our largest selling product. We are substantially dependent on sales of Xyrem to generate most of the cash necessary to operate our business and to meet our ongoing financial obligations, and our future plans assume that sales of Xyrem will increase. While Xyrem product sales grew from 2010 to 2011, we cannot assure you that Xyrem sales will continue to grow. We have periodically significantly increased the price of Xyrem, most recently in February 2012, and we cannot assure you that price adjustments we have taken or may take in the future have not, or will not in the future, negatively affect Xyrem sales volumes. In addition to other risks described herein, our ability to maintain or increase Xyrem product sales is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the most important of which are discussed below, including those related to: • the potential introduction of a generic version of Xyrem; • our manufacturing partners’ ability to obtain sufficient quota from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, to satisfy our needs for Xyrem; • any supply or distribution problems arising with any of our manufacturing and distribution partners, all of whom are sole source providers for us; • changed or increased regulatory restrictions, including changes to our risk management program for Xyrem, or regulatory actions by the FDA as a result of a warning letter we received in October 2011; • changes in healthcare laws and policy, including changes in requirements for rebates, reimbursement and coverage by federal healthcare programs; • changes to our label, including new safety warnings or changes to our boxed warning, that further restrict how we market and sell Xyrem; and • continued acceptance of Xyrem as safe and effective by physicians and patients, even in the face of negative publicity that surfaces from time to time. These and the other risks described in these risk factors related to Xyrem product sales could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase sales of Xyrem. If prescriptions and revenue from sales of Xyrem do not continue or increase as expected, we may be required to reduce our operating expenses or to seek to raise additional funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects, or we may not be able to acquire, in-license or develop new products to grow our business. If generic products that compete with Xyrem or any of our other products are approved and launched, sales of that product would be adversely affected. Although Xyrem is covered by patents covering its formulation, distribution system and method, and certain of our other products are covered by patents covering their respective formulations, distributions systems or methods of use, we cannot assure you that third parties will not attempt to invalidate or design around the 22 Table of Contents patents, or assert that they are invalid or otherwise unenforceable, and introduce generic equivalents of Xyrem or any other products. Once orphan drug exclusivity for Xyrem in the United States for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy expires in November 2012 and exclusivity has expired for the other products, other companies could possibly introduce generic equivalents of these products if they do not infringe our patents or can demonstrate that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. On October 18, 2010, we received notice from Roxane Laboratories, Inc., or Roxane, that it filed an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, requesting approval to market a generic version of Xyrem. If the application is approved, and a generic version of Xyrem is introduced, our sales of Xyrem would be adversely affected. Additional ANDAs could also be filed requesting approval to market generic forms of Xyrem; if those applications for generics were approved and the generics were launched, sales of Xyrem would further decrease. Roxane has sent us Paragraph IV certifications with respect to our patents listed in the FDA’s approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluation documents, or Orange Book, covering Xyrem for the treatment of cataplexy and excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy. A Paragraph IV certification is a certification by a generic applicant that patents covering the branded product are invalid, unenforceable, and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of the generic product. The FDA will not approve an ANDA for a generic form of a product unless the submitting manufacturer either files a Paragraph IV certification with respect to the patents listed in the FDA’s Orange Book for that product or all of those patents expire. We have sued Roxane, but we cannot assure you that the lawsuit will prevent the introduction of a generic version of Xyrem for any particular length of time, or at all. A generic manufacturer would need to obtain quota from the DEA in order to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product for a generic version of Xyrem. The DEA has historically published an annual overall quota that is less than we need, and we have engaged in costly and time consuming legal efforts to obtain the needed quotas, and our suppliers have historically obtained substantially all of the aggregate quota, for use in the manufacture of Xyrem. The aggregate quota published for 2012 is significantly higher than the amounts requested by our suppliers to meet our needs for Xyrem. As a result, it may be easier for a generic manufacturer to obtain DEA quota than it would have been in prior years. We received Paragraph IV certification notices relating to three generic versions of Luvox CR, two in 2009 and one in 2011.We filed lawsuits against all of these companies after receipt of their certifications. We and Elan Pharma International Limited, which has subsequently transferred its rights to Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited, or Alkermes, entered into settlement agreements with one of the companies, granting to such company a sublicense of its rights to have manufactured, market and sell a generic version of Luvox CR commencing in February 2013, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events. The lawsuits against the other two companies are pending. We cannot assure you that these lawsuits, or any others we may bring, will prevent the introduction of generic versions of Luvox CR for any particular length of time, or at all. Azur Pharma received Paragraph IV certifications from three generic manufacturers, two in 2008 and one in 2010, relating to generic versions of FazaClo LD. Azur Pharma and CIMA Labs Inc., a subsidiary of Teva, or CIMA, our licensor and whose drug-delivery technology is incorporated into FazaClo LD, filed lawsuits in response to each certification. In July 2011, Azur Pharma, CIMA, Barr Laboratories (one of the three generic manufacturers) and Teva, which had acquired Barr Laboratories, entered into an agreement settling the patent litigation and granting a license of our rights to have manufactured, market and sell a generic version of FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD. The sublicenses will commence in July 2012 and May 2015 for FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD, respectively, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events. We cannot assure you that the lawsuits against the other generic manufacturers, or any other lawsuit we may bring, will prevent the introduction of generic versions of FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD for any particular length of time, or at all. In August 2011, Azur Pharma received a Paragraph IV certification notice from Teva advising that Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of FazaClo HD. As noted above, FazaClo HD was covered under the July 2011 settlement agreement with Teva. 23 Table of Contents The two formulation patents covering FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD that we license from CIMA are under re-examination by the U.S Patent and Trademark Office and both of the re-examination proceedings have proceeded to appeal at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. It is currently not possible to predict whether these re-examination proceedings will result in one or both of the patents being fully or partly invalidated. Any decision on the part of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that results in one or both of the patents being fully or partly invalidated could accelerate the entry of generic competitors for FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD. After the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the prescriptions written for a product generally may be filled with the generic version, resulting in a loss in sales of the branded product, including for indications for which the generic version has not been approved for marketing by the FDA. Generic competition often results in decreases in the prices at which branded products can be sold, particularly when there is more than one generic available in the marketplace. In addition, legislation enacted in the United States allows for, and in a few instances in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician mandates, the dispensing of generic products rather than branded products where a generic equivalent is available. Generic competition for Xyrem and our other products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The combination of the businesses of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma creates numerous risks and uncertainties, which could adversely affect our operating results or prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of the merger. The merger transaction between Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma has created numerous uncertainties and risks, and has required, and will continue to require, significant efforts and expenditures. Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. transitioned from a standalone public Delaware corporation to being part of a combined company organized in Ireland. This combination entails many changes, including the integration of Azur Pharma and its personnel with those of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and changes in systems. These transition activities are complex, and we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs, including: • the diversion of our management’s attention to integration of operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures; • difficulties in achieving anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the business of Azur Pharma with that of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; • difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; • difficulties in the assimilation of employees and corporate cultures; • challenges in harmonizing our promotional review process and other compliance activities and meeting our ongoing regulatory obligations for our expanded product portfolio; • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and • challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. If any of these factors impairs our ability to integrate the operations of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. with those of Azur Pharma successfully or on a timely basis, we may not be able to realize the anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses. In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of its business. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline if the integration of the businesses of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma is unsuccessful, takes longer than expected or fails to achieve financial benefits to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors, or the effect of the business combination on the financial results of the combined company is otherwise not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. 24 Table of Contents The manufacture, distribution and sale of Xyrem are subject to significant restrictions and the requirements of a risk management program, and these restrictions and requirements subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Xyrem. The DEA limits the quantity of certain Schedule I controlled substances that may be produced in the United States in any given calendar year through a quota system. Because the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Xyrem, sodium oxybate, is a Schedule I controlled substance, our current and any potential new suppliers of sodium oxybate, as well as our product manufacturer, must each obtain separate DEA quotas in order to supply us with sodium oxybate and Xyrem. Since the DEA typically grants quotas on an annual basis and requires a detailed submission and justification for each request, obtaining a DEA quota is a difficult and time consuming process. If our commercial or clinical requirements for sodium oxybate or Xyrem exceed our suppliers’ and product manufacturer’s DEA quotas, our suppliers and product manufacturer would need quota increases from the DEA, which could be difficult and time consuming to obtain and might not ultimately be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will receive sufficient quota from the DEA to meet our needs, and if we and our suppliers cannot obtain as much quota as is needed, on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. As a condition of approval of Xyrem, the FDA mandated that we maintain a risk management program for Xyrem. The risk management plan includes unique features that provide information about adverse events, including deaths, that is generally not available for other products that are not subject to a similar risk management plan. Information concerning adverse events that may not be related to the use of Xyrem is likely to be collected under the risk management plan. This information, which we are required to report regularly to the FDA, could result in the FDA requiring changes to the Xyrem label or taking or requiring us to take other actions that could have an adverse effect on Xyrem’s commercial success. Under the risk management plan, all of the Xyrem sold in the United States must be shipped directly to patients through a single central pharmacy. The process under which patients receive Xyrem under the Xyrem risk management program is cumbersome. While we have an agreement with the central pharmacy for Xyrem, Express Scripts Specialty Distribution Services, Inc. and its affiliate CuraScript, Inc., or ESSDS, through June 2015, if the central pharmacy does not fulfill its contractual obligations to us, or refuses or fails to adequately serve patients, shipments of Xyrem and our sales would be adversely affected. If we change our central pharmacy, new contracts might be required with government and other insurers who pay for Xyrem, and the terms of any new contracts could be less favorable to us than current agreements. In addition, any new central pharmacy would need to be registered with the DEA and would also need to implement the particular processes, procedures and activities necessary to distribute Xyrem under the risk management plan approved by the FDA. Transitioning to a new central pharmacy could result in product shortages, which would adversely affect sales of Xyrem in the United States, result in additional costs and expenses for us, and/or take a significant amount of time, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In late April 2011, we learned that deaths of patients who had been prescribed Xyrem between 2003 and 2010 had not always been reported to us by ESSDS and therefore to the FDA as required. Promptly after learning of them, we reported to the FDA all of the previously unreported cases that we and ESSDS had identified. We also began immediately taking specific steps to strengthen our own procedures, and those between us and ESSDS, to ensure that all adverse events are reported to us, and to the FDA, in an appropriate and timely manner. In early May 2011, we received a Form 483 as a result of an FDA inspection, which included the inspector’s observations concerning our adverse event reporting system. That document discussed the failure to report serious adverse events, including certain cases of deaths as described above, and also noted deficiencies in certain of our drug safety procedures. After receipt of the Form 483, we continued our efforts to improve our systems, and those used by us and ESSDS, to ensure that we correct the deficiencies noted in the Form 483, and 25 Table of Contents those efforts are continuing. In October 2011, we received a warning letter from the FDA relating to the matters covered by the Form 483. We have responded to the warning letter, advising the FDA of the efforts we have taken to date and are continuing to take, and we are continuing to strengthen our procedures and take appropriate corrective actions to address all of the matters covered in the warning letter. While we have responded to the warning letter in a timely manner and we intend to demonstrate our compliance to the FDA’s satisfaction, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately address the FDA’s requirements pursuant to the warning letter, and the failure to do so could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The information we initially received concerning the cases discussed above does not specify the cause of death in most cases, and as a result we cannot be certain whether any, or how many, of the cases are related to Xyrem. We are gathering additional information under a plan we have discussed with the FDA, and we plan to provide the FDA with this information in the next several months. As a result of our review to date, we believe that the adjusted annual all-cause mortality rate has been consistent since the product’s launch and that it does not constitute a new safety signal for Xyrem. We cannot assure you that additional information we may learn will not modify our current assessment, that the FDA will agree with this assessment or that the FDA will not open an evaluation based on the FDA’s Adverse Event Reporting System database, require changes to Xyrem’s label or take or require us to take other actions that could be costly or time-consuming and/or negatively affect the commercial success of Xyrem. We cannot assure you that regulatory authorities in other countries where Xyrem is sold will not take similar actions. The Xyrem risk management plan adopted with the approval of the product in 2002 is not in the same form as required under the current Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, as it is structured today by the FDA. The FDA has required that pre-existing risk management programs be converted to the newer REMS structure under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007. While we have been in discussions with the FDA about converting our current risk management plan for Xyrem to a REMS under the new structure, those discussions have not been completed. We cannot assure you that the FDA will not impose new and onerous requirements under the new REMS structure that could make it more difficult or expensive for us to distribute Xyrem or could adversely affect our sales or make competition easier. The FDA has required that Xyrem’s label include a boxed warning regarding the risk of abuse. A boxed warning is the strongest type of warning that the FDA can require for a drug product and warns prescribers that the drug carries a significant risk of serious or even life-threatening adverse effects. A boxed warning also means, among other things, that the product cannot be advertised through reminder ads, ads which mention the pharmaceutical brand name but not the indication or medical condition it treats. In addition, Xyrem’s FDA approval under the FDA’s Subpart H regulations requires that all of the promotional materials for Xyrem be provided to the FDA for review at least 30 days prior to the intended time of first use. The manufacture, distribution and sale of FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD are, and we expect Clozapine OS and Clozapine QD if approved would be, subject to the requirements of a patient registry program and other restrictions under the requirements of its risk management plan, and these requirements will subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of those products. The FDA requires a risk management plan in the form of a patient registry for all clozapine-containing products, including FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD. The FazaClo risk management plan provides a database for monitoring patients (white blood cell and absolute neutrophil counts) treated with FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD to permit early detection of clozapine-induced leucopenia or agranulocytosis, provides a confidential registration and reporting process for patients treated with the products, and provides ongoing updating of the Clozapine National Non-Rechallenge Masterfile with patients previously treated with clozapine products who can no longer be prescribed clozapine products including FazaClo. White blood cell counts of patients taking FazaClo products must be monitored weekly for the first six months of treatment, bi-weekly for the next six months and monthly thereafter (for patients having 12 months of acceptable blood test results). 26 Table of Contents The risk management plan for FazaClo, which was adopted in 2004, is not in the same form as required under the newer REMS structure under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007. The FDA has required that the existing risk management program for FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD be converted to its current REMS structure. Azur Pharma submitted a supplement for a new REMS plan, which, once approved, will replace the current risk management plan for FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD. We cannot assure you that the FDA will not impose new and onerous requirements under the new REMS structure that could make it more difficult or expensive for us to distribute FazaClo or could adversely affect our sales or make competition easier. In June 2009, the FDA posted an announcement regarding a potential safety signal associated with FazaClo. The posting stated that FazaClo had been found to exhibit a higher proportion of adverse events with a fatal outcome versus total adverse events compared to other clozapine products. The posting also stated that the reported events in the cases with fatal outcome are similar for FazaClo and other clozapine products. Although Azur Pharma investigated and we believe that the difference in the cited ratio between FazaClo and other marketed Clozapine products does not reflect an underlying adverse safety signal, we cannot assure you that additional information we may learn will not modify our current assessment, that the FDA will agree with this assessment or that the FDA will not take further actions related to the potential safety signal, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on single source suppliers and manufacturers for each of our products and product candidates. The loss of any of these suppliers or manufacturers, or delays or problems in the supply or manufacture of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We do not have, and do not intend to establish in the near term, our own manufacturing or packaging capability for our products or product candidates, or their active pharmaceutical ingredients. In part due to the limited market size for our approved products, we have entered into manufacturing and supply agreements with single source suppliers and manufacturers for our commercialized products and product candidates. If our suppliers and contract manufacturers, including any new suppliers without a track record of meeting our supply needs, do not manufacture our products or product candidates without interruption or do not comply with their obligations to us under our supply and manufacturing arrangements, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and their failure to supply us could result in a shortage of our products or product candidates. The availability of our products for commercial sale depends upon our ability to procure the ingredients, packaging materials and finished products we need. If one of our suppliers or product manufacturers fails or refuses to supply us for any reason, it would take a significant amount of time and expense to qualify a new supplier or manufacturer. The loss of one of our suppliers or product manufacturers could require us to obtain regulatory clearance in the form of a “prior approval supplement” and to incur validation and other costs associated with the transfer of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or product manufacturing process. We believe that it could take up to two years, or longer in certain cases, to qualify a new supplier or manufacturer, and we may not be able to obtain active pharmaceutical ingredients, packaging materials or finished products from new suppliers or manufacturers on acceptable terms and at reasonable prices, or at all. Should we lose either an active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier or a product manufacturer, we could run out of salable product to meet market demands or investigational product for use in clinical trials while we wait for FDA approval of a new active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier or product manufacturer. For Xyrem or sodium oxybate, any new supplier or manufacturer would also need to be registered with the DEA and obtain a DEA quota. In addition, the FDA must approve suppliers of the active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products, as well as suppliers of finished products. The qualification of new suppliers and manufacturers could potentially delay the manufacture of our products and product candidates and result in shortages in the marketplace or for our clinical trials, or both, particularly since we do not have secondary sources of supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or backup manufacturers for our products and product candidates. Our new supplier of sodium oxybate, Siegfried (USA) Inc., or Siegfried, was approved by the FDA in late 2011 and became our sole commercial supplier in 2012. 27 Table of Contents Our FazaClo supplier, CIMA, is in the process of transferring manufacturing of FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD from its Eden Prairie site to the Salt Lake City site of its parent company, Teva. While we expect this transition to be completed in 2012, we cannot be certain this will occur. FDA approval is required for this change and we cannot be certain this will be obtained. Pursuant to our supply agreement with Abbott, we are responsible for purchasing, and Abbott is responsible for providing us with, fluvoxamine maleate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient necessary to manufacture Luvox CR. Abbott (through its predecessor Solvay which it acquired in 2010) assigned to us its rights and obligations under its license and supply agreement with Alkermes. Pursuant to the license and supply agreement with Alkermes, we are responsible for providing the active pharmaceutical ingredient free of charge to Alkermes, and Alkermes has the right and obligation to manufacture the worldwide commercial requirements of Luvox CR. Abbott has purchased the fluvoxamine maleate it supplied to us from Lonza, Inc., or Lonza, and, therefore, Lonza, through Abbott, was our sole supplier of fluvoxamine maleate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Luvox CR. Lonza sold its United States facility where it manufactured fluvoxamine maleate to a third party that currently continues to supply Abbott, and therefore us, with fluvoxamine maleate. Any new manufacturer or new site would need to be approved by the FDA. We are in the process of changing suppliers for Prialt finished product and for ziconotide, the active ingredient in Prialt. We have identified and commenced the transfer of ziconotide to a new manufacturer. We believe that we have sufficient supply of ziconotide to meet our commercial requirements for a number of years, by which time we expect supply to be available from a new manufacturer. We have also identified and begun the transfer of Prialt finished product manufacturing to a new manufacturer. Final batches are scheduled for manufacture at the current manufacturer with supply expected to be sufficient to meet commercial requirements through the end of 2013, by which time we expect a new manufacturer to be approved as a supplier by the FDA. However, there can be no assurance that such new manufacturers of ziconotide and Prialt finished product or any other manufacturer will be approved by the FDA, or that our supplies of ziconotide and Prialt will be sufficient until such manufacturers or other manufacturers have been approved, and any failure to obtain sufficient commercial supplies of Prialt would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there are delays in qualifying the new manufacturers or facilities or the new manufacturer is unable to obtain a sufficient quota from the DEA or otherwise meet the FDA requirements for approval, there could be a shortage of the affected products for the marketplace or for use in clinical studies, or both. Failure by our third party manufacturers to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect their ability to supply products or ingredients to us. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements. In complying with cGMP requirements, our suppliers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that our products and product candidates meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. DEA regulations also govern facilities where controlled substances such as sodium oxybate are manufactured. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA and other regulatory authorities, including state authorities. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements subjects the suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with the ingredients or finished products we need. Any delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products by any of our suppliers could result in our inability to meet the commercial demand for our products in the United States and our partners’ needs outside the United States, or our needs for use in clinical trials, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 28 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully identify and acquire, in-license or develop additional products or product candidates to grow our business, and, even if we are able to do so, we may not be able to successfully identify and manage the risks associated with integrating acquisitions, including acquisitions of a company or business unit, or other new products or product candidates. We intend to grow our business over the long-term by acquiring or in-licensing and developing additional products and product candidates that we believe have significant commercial potential. Any growth through acquisition or in-licensing will depend upon the availability of suitable acquisition or in-license products and product candidates on acceptable prices, terms and conditions, and any growth through development will depend upon our identifying and obtaining product candidates, our ability to develop those product candidates and the availability of funding to complete the development of, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize these product candidates. Even if appropriate opportunities are available, we may not be able to successfully identify them, or we may not have the financial resources necessary to pursue them. Other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, compete with us for these opportunities. In addition, integrating an acquisition, including the acquisition of a company or business unit, or an in-licensed product or product candidate, may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenses for us, including: • the diversion of management time and focus from operating our current business; • unanticipated liabilities for activities of or related to an acquired company or product before the acquisition; • failure to retain employees or to smoothly integrate related departments; and • failure to successfully develop and commercialize acquired products and product candidates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage these risks or other anticipated and unanticipated problems in connection with integrating an acquisition, including the acquisition of a company or business unit, or in-licensed product or product candidate, and, if we are not successful in identifying and managing these risks and uncertainties effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The commercial success of our products depends upon their market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community. Physicians may not prescribe our products, in which case we would not generate the revenues we anticipate. Market acceptance of any of our products by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community depends on: • the clinical indications for which a product is approved, including any restrictions placed upon the product in connection with its approval, such as a REMS, patient registry or labeling restrictions; • prevalence of the disease or condition for which the product is approved and the severity of side effects; • acceptance by physicians and patients of each product as a safe and effective treatment; • perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including generic products; • the extent to which the product is approved for inclusion on formularies of hospitals and managed care organizations; and • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties. From time to time, there is negative publicity about illicit gamma-hydroxybutyrate, or GHB, and its effects, including with respect to illegal use, overdoses, serious injury and death. Because sodium oxybate, the active 29 Table of Contents pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem, is a derivative of GHB, Xyrem sometimes also receives negative mention in publicity relating to GHB. Patients, physicians and regulators may therefore view Xyrem as the same as or similar to illicit GHB. In addition, there are regulators and some law enforcement agencies that oppose the prescription and use of Xyrem generally because of its connection to GHB. Xyrem’s label includes information about adverse events from GHB. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to patients. Because of our dependence upon patient and physician perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the use or misuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Negative publicity resulting from our receipt of a Form 483 observation in May 2011 or the related warning letter from the FDA in October 2011, or other related regulatory actions could adversely affect sales of Xyrem. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the consolidation among wholesale drug distributors. The network through which we sell our products has undergone significant consolidation through mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drugstore chains has decreased. Three large wholesale distributors and one of their subsidiaries accounted for an aggregate of 90% of Azur Pharma’s total sales during the year ended December 31, 2011, and the same three large wholesale distributors accounted for an aggregate of 11% of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s total sales during the year ended December 31, 2011. If any of our major distributors reduces its inventory levels or otherwise reduces purchases of our products, it could lead to periodic and unanticipated future reductions in revenues and cash flows. Consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers, as well as any increased pricing pressure that those entities face from their customers, including the U.S. government, may increase pricing pressure and place other competitive pressures on drug companies, including us. We face substantial competition from other companies, including companies with greater resources than we have. With respect to all of our existing and future products, we may compete with companies selling or working to develop products that may be more effective, safer or less costly than our products. The markets for which we are developing products are competitive and include generic and branded products, some of which are marketed by major pharmaceutical companies that have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing and selling approved products than we do. Smaller or earlier stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize generic or branded products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our products. Many of our competitors have far greater financial resources and a larger number of personnel to market and sell their products than we do. Our competitors may obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we may and may market their products more effectively than we do. If we are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our products are preferable to other therapies, we may not generate meaningful revenues from the sales of our products. We currently have a relatively small sales organization compared with most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products. If our specialty sales forces and sales organization is not appropriately sized to adequately promote any potential future products, the commercial opportunity for our potential future products may be diminished. We have a relatively small number of sales representatives compared with the number of sales representatives of most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products. Each of our sales 30 Table of Contents representatives is responsible for a territory of significant size. Future commercial products may require expansion of our sales force and sales support organization, and we may need to commit significant additional funds, management and other resources to the growth of our sales organization before the commercial launch of those product candidates. We may not be able to achieve any necessary growth in a timely or cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on our investment, and we may not have the financial resources to achieve the necessary growth in a timely manner or at all. We also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel, and turnover in our sales force and marketing personnel could negatively affect sales of our products. A failure to prove that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials would require us to discontinue their development, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Significant additional research and development, financial resources and additional personnel will be required to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our current and any future product candidates and to develop them into commercially viable products. As a condition to regulatory approval, each product candidate must undergo extensive and expensive clinical trials to demonstrate to a statistically significant degree that the product candidate is safe and effective. If a product candidate fails at any stage of development, we will not be able to commercialize it and we will not receive any return on our investment from that product candidate. We and our partners have conducted, and we may in the future conduct, additional clinical trials for our product candidates including: an oral suspension formulation of clozapine, Clozapine OS, and a once-daily formulation of clozapine, Clozapine QD. Clinical testing can take many years to complete, especially for product candidates that are in Phase II, or earlier, clinical trials, and failure can occur any time during the clinical trial process. In addition, the results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed successfully through initial clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials. Our product candidates are subject to competition for clinical study sites and patients from other therapies under development that may delay the enrollment in or initiation of our clinical trials. Many of these companies have far greater financial and human resources than we do. To grow our sodium oxybate business, we have and may in the future conduct additional studies in different diseases or conditions or with additional or different doses or dosage forms. We cannot assure you that adverse events or other information obtained during the course of any of these studies will not result in action by the FDA or otherwise that could have a material adverse effect on the Xyrem commercial product as well as the candidate we are studying. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their legal and regulatory obligations, as well as their contractual obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We rely on our licensors, contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out clinical trials for our product candidates, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. We are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol, as well as FDA’s and foreign regulatory agencies’ requirements, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA enforces good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, 31 Table of Contents principal investigators and trial sites. If we, our licensors, contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the FDA’s cGMP regulations. Our failure, or the failure of our contract manufacturers, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat or redesign clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we fail to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, or to retain our executive management team, or if we cannot provide additional resources to perform important tasks, we may be unable to successfully sustain or grow our business. Our success and our ability to grow depend in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. Our current and prospective employees might experience uncertainty about their roles with us during the integration phase of the businesses of Jazz pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma, which might adversely affect our ability to retain key managers and other employees. We are highly dependent upon our executive management team and other key personnel, all of whom work on many complex matters that are critical to our success. The loss of services of any one or more members of our executive management team or other key personnel could delay or prevent the successful completion of some of our key activities. We do not carry “key person” insurance. Any employee may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice (or, in the case of certain employees who entered into employment agreements with Azur Pharma, with up to three months notice) and without cause or good reason. In addition, to grow our company we will need additional personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the life sciences industry has historically been intense. If we lose key personnel or cannot timely attract, retain and motivate quality personnel on acceptable terms, our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our products and product candidates, their use and the methods used to manufacture and, in some cases, distribute them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. Our ability to protect our products and product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties depends on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, or have trade secrets that cover these activities. The patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Even if we are able to obtain patents covering our products and product candidates, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. For example, even though we have patents covering 32 Table of Contents Xyrem, an ANDA was filed requesting permission from the FDA to market a generic form of Xyrem, and we have received notices from the company that filed the ANDA stating that the ANDA included Paragraph IV certifications with respect to our Xyrem patents listed in the FDA’s Orange Book. In the case of Luvox CR, we have received three Paragraph IV certifications which allege that the Alkermes patent listed in the Orange Book for Luvox CR is invalid. Similarly, three ANDAs were filed requesting approval from the FDA to market a generic form of FazaClo LD and one ANDA has been filed requesting approval from the FDA to market a generic form of FazaClo HD. Azur Pharma has received notices from the companies that filed the ANDAs stating that such ANDAs included Paragraph IV certifications with respect to the patents listed in the FDA’s Orange Book. The existence of a patent will not necessarily prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products or protect us from claims of third parties that our products infringe their issued patents, which may require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar products that do not infringe our patents, or manufacture products in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that do not respect our patents. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents, our licensed patents or in third party patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These changes include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is too early to tell what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The degree of future protection to be afforded by our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • others may be able to make products that are similar to our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements; • we or our licensors or partners might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or the pending patent applications or issued patents of our licensors or partners; • we or our licensors or partners might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative products without infringing our intellectual property rights; • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or partners may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary products that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also may rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are 33 Table of Contents difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information, our employees, consultants, advisors and partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors, and we may not have adequate remedies for such disclosures. If our employees, consultants, advisors and partners develop inventions or processes independently, or jointly with us, that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership or proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our inventions or trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside of the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Certain of the women’s health and other products we sell, including Urelle, Natelle, Gesticare and Gastrocrom, have no patent protection and, as a result, potential competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products. The introduction of competing products could materially adversely affect our sales of these products. For example, in October 2011 an ANDA from Pack Pharmaceuticals LLC, seeking to manufacture and sell a generic version of Gastrocrom, was approved by the FDA, and a generic version of Gastrocrom has since been launched. Our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information to which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. While the ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to contractual limitations, these contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication, or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our innovations and other confidential information, then our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized. Moreover, a dispute may arise with our research and development collaborators over the ownership of rights to jointly developed intellectual property. Such disputes, if not successfully resolved, could lead to a loss of rights and possibly prevent us from pursuing certain new products or product candidates. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or commercialize, our products. Our ability, and that of our partners, to commercialize any approved products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We have filed multiple U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts, and may file additional U.S. and foreign patent applications related thereto. There can be no assurance that any issued patents we own or control will provide sufficient protection to conduct our business as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted. Moreover, in part because of prior research performed and patent applications submitted in the same manner or similar fields, there can be no assurance that any patents will issue from the patent applications owned by us, or that we will remain free from infringement claims by third parties. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from pursuing the inventions claimed in our patents, our licensed patents or our partners’ patents, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and consume time and other resources, even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that the other party’s activities do not infringe our rights to these patents or that it is in the public interest to permit the infringing activity. We are prosecuting lawsuits against the generic manufacturers who delivered Paragraph IV certifications to Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. or Azur Pharma with respect to Xyrem, FazaClo LD and Luvox CR. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” We 34 Table of Contents cannot assure you that these, or other lawsuits we may file in the future, will be successful in stopping the infringement of our patents, that any such litigation will be cost-effective, or that the litigation will have a satisfactory result for us. A third party may claim that we or our manufacturing or commercialization partners are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights, or that we or such partners are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating other intellectual property rights, and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our products. Such lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of management and development personnel. There is a risk that a court could decide that we or our partners are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating third party patent or other intellectual property rights, which could be very costly to us and have a material adverse effect on our business. The pharmaceutical and life sciences industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for inventions covered by our licensors’ or our issued patents or pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first inventors. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering subject matter similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patents or applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such subject matter. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent and other intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising and promotion, distributing and exporting of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, and regulations differ from country to country. Approval in the United States, or in any jurisdiction, does not ensure approval in other jurisdictions. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and we may be unable to obtain approval for our product candidates. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval from the FDA, generally of a new drug application, or an NDA. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize them and recoup our research and development costs. 35 Table of Contents Healthcare law and policy changes, including those based on recently enacted legislation, may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In March 2010, the President signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Healthcare Reform Act. This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, in some cases in ways we cannot currently predict. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, fraud and abuse and enforcement. These changes will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program. Additional provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, some of which became effective in 2011, may negatively affect our revenues in the future. For example, as part of the Healthcare Reform Act’s provisions closing a funding gap that currently exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), we are required to provide a 50% discount on branded prescription drugs dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole. In addition, under the Healthcare Reform Act, the minimum Medicaid rebate has been increased from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for our products. We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase our product sales or successfully commercialize our product candidates or could limit or eliminate our future spending on development projects. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep healthcare costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products and any approved product candidates or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, or may increase the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies such as ours. To help patients afford our products, we have various programs to assist them, including patient assistance programs, a Xyrem voucher program and coupon programs for certain products. Coupon programs, including our program for Xyrem, have received some negative publicity, and it is possible that new legislation could be enacted to restrict or otherwise negatively affect these programs. The enactment and implementation of any future healthcare reform legislation or policies could have a material adverse effect on our sales, business and financial condition. We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products. We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our products are, and any of our product candidates that may be approved by the FDA will be, subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we receive regulatory approvals to sell our products, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our products, or impose requirements for burdensome post-approval study commitments. The terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the commercial potential of the product. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with any of our products in the United States or overseas or at our contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions 36 Table of Contents on our products, our contract manufacturers or on us. In such an instance, we could experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could become the target of lawsuits. For a patient to be prescribed Prialt, the patient must have a surgically implanted infusion pump and the FDA has approved Prialt for use only with Medtronic’s SynchroMed® EL and SynchroMed® II programmable implantable pumps. Any regulatory action involving the pumps or Prialt’s delivery via the pumps could materially adversely impact sales of Prialt. Some of our women’s health and other products, such as Urelle and prenatal vitamin products Natelle and Gesticare, have not been approved by the FDA, and the FDA may view them as unapproved new drugs. These products have historically been the subject of FDA enforcement discretion under which the FDA has generally prioritized action against marketed unapproved drugs that the FDA considers to present a potential safety risk, lack evidence of effectiveness, or be deceptively promoted, among other enforcement priority reasons. However, in a September 19, 2011 Compliance Policy Guide, the FDA announced a change to its enforcement policy for marketed unapproved drugs. In this guidance, the FDA informed marketers of unapproved drugs that all unapproved drugs introduced into the market after September 19, 2011 are subject to immediate enforcement action at any time, without prior notice. In addition, any formulation or labeling changes to a pre-September 19, 2011 product could potentially subject the manufacturer to immediate FDA enforcement action to remove such product from the market. We cannot assure you that the FDA will continue to permit marketing of any of our women’s health and other products that have not been approved by the FDA in their existing formulations, or at all, without submission and approval of an NDA. Moreover, under the recent FDA guidance, any formulation or labeling changes to these products may also subject them to FDA enforcement action to remove them from the market. The FDA and other governmental authorities also actively enforce regulations prohibiting off-label promotion, and the government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion. The government has also required companies to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and/or non-prosecution agreements that impose significant reporting and other burdens on the affected companies. For example, a predecessor company to Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was investigated for off-label promotion of Xyrem, and, while Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. was not prosecuted, as part of the settlement Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services with a term extending through mid-2012. The investigation resulted in significant fines and penalties, which Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. guaranteed and has been paying; the final payment was made in January 2012. The corporate integrity agreement requires us to maintain a comprehensive compliance program. In the event of an uncured material breach or deliberate violation, as the case may be, of the corporate integrity agreement or the other definitive settlement agreements Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. entered into, we could be excluded from participation in Federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject our company to other administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, untitled letters, other civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of the products from the market and refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the DEA, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we commercialize our products. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, promotion, marketing, and pricing to government purchasers and government healthcare programs. Our manufacturing partners are subject to many of the same requirements, which include obtaining sufficient quota 37 Table of Contents from the DEA each year to manufacture sodium oxybate and Xyrem. Pursuant to the Export Administration Regulations, we are required to obtain a license from the U.S. Department of Commerce prior to the exportation of certain materials and technical information related to Prialt. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common manufacturer business arrangements and activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations of our products may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. We seek to comply with the exemptions and safe harbors whenever possible, but our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. The Federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been investigated and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government under these laws for a variety of alleged marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company’s products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug payment rates under government healthcare programs. Companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the marketing of their products for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have also been prosecuted on other legal theories of Medicare and Medicaid fraud. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states prohibit providing meals to prescribers or other marketing related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, California, Nevada, and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. Currently, several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with various federal and state laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that violate them may face substantial penalties. The potential sanctions include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a company’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the lack of extensive legal guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The number and complexity of both federal and state laws continues to increase, and additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. In particular, the Healthcare Reform Act includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government’s ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, amendments to the False Claims Act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim 38 Table of Contents violations and, as required by the Physician Payment Sunset provisions, extensive tracking and maintenance of database starting in 2012 and public reporting beginning in March 2013 of payments by pharmaceutical manufacturers to physicians and teaching hospitals nationwide. While it is too early to predict what effect these changes will have on our business, we anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will continue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of government investigations and enforcement actions. Responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If we or the other parties with whom we work fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or our partners’ ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program, established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and amended by the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 as well as subsequent legislation. We also participate in and have certain price reporting obligations to several state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program under a fee-for-service arrangement, as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to the Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services, or CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicaid rebate program. These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and subsequent legislation, or PPACA, made significant changes to the Medicaid rebate program. Effective March 23, 2010, rebates are also due on the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations. With regard to the amount of the rebates owed, the PPACA increased the minimum Medicaid rebate for innovator drugs; changed the calculation of the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and caps the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the average manufacturer price. In addition, the PPACA and subsequent legislation changed the definition of average manufacturer price. Finally, the PPACA requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a new branded prescription drug fee to the federal government beginning in 2011. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer will pay a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $2.5 billion in 2011 (and set to increase in ensuing years) based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. The CMS has yet to issue regulations to implement any of the PPACA’s changes to the Medicaid rebate program, although regulations have been proposed to implement the Medicaid rebate provisions of the enacted statutory changes. We cannot assure you that there will not be additional increases in rebates or other costs and charges associated with participating in the Medicaid rebate program. Regulations continue to be issued and coverage expanded by various governmental agencies relating to these rebate programs, increasing the cost and complexity of compliance. 39 Table of Contents Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service’s 340B drug pricing discount program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer’s drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid rebate program. To the extent the PPACA, as discussed above, changes the statutory and regulatory definitions of average manufacturer price and the Medicaid rebate amount, these changes also will affect our 340B ceiling price calculations. These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. The PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional entity types: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the PPACA. Except for children’s hospitals, the PPACA exempts “orphan drugs”—those designated under section 526 of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act—from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the CMS of our current average manufacturer prices and best prices for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for prior quarters was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations serve to increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid rebate program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the price that we are required to charge certain safety-net providers under the Public Health Service 340B drug discount program. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B Program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. In the event that the CMS terminates our rebate agreement, no Federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs. In September 2010, the CMS and the Office of the Inspector General indicated that they intend more aggressively to pursue companies who fail to report this data to the government in a timely manner. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. The CMS recently published information stating that many companies’ monthly and quarterly submissions are incomplete or incorrect. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by the CMS to be incomplete or incorrect. The PPACA also obligates the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the program and to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the program to obligate manufacturers to sell to covered entities if they sell to any other purchaser and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs. In addition, Congress is currently considering legislation that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in the inpatient setting by certain covered entity hospitals, where those drugs are used for the covered entity’s uninsured inpatients. 40 Table of Contents Reimbursement may not be available for our products, which could diminish our sales or affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both U.S. and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products successfully and to attract strategic partners for our products depends in significant part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third party payors, including, in the United States, governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations and private health insurers. Third party payors decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement and co-pay levels. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. In some cases, for example, third party payors try to encourage the use of less expensive generic products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement and co-pay policies. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Even with studies, our products may be considered less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than existing products, and third party payors may not provide coverage and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. We cannot predict actions third party payors may take, or whether they will limit the coverage and level of reimbursement for our products or refuse to provide any coverage at all. For example, because Luvox CR, FazaClo LD and FazaClo HD each compete in a market with both branded and generic products, reimbursement by government and private payors may be more challenging than for new chemical entities. We cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts, or the lack of reimbursement, will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to effectively commercialize our products. In recent years, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes in and proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. These changes and proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for some medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control and regulations changing the rebates we are required to provide. For example, a final rule published by the U.S. Department of Defense, or DoD, in March 2009 (and reissued in October 2010), implementing the terms of Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, established a program under which the DoD expects rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers on all prescriptions of “covered” drugs (including innovator drugs and biologics) filled under the TRICARE retail pharmacy program from January 28, 2008 forward, unless the DoD agrees to a waiver or compromise of amounts due. Additionally, under the final rule, to remain eligible for inclusion on the DoD Uniform Formulary, a pharmaceutical manufacturer must enter into a pricing agreement under which it agrees to pay rebates to the DoD on TRICARE retail pharmacy utilization on a prospective basis. These rebates are meant to enable the DoD to access pricing that is either close to or equal to “Federal Ceiling Prices,” as defined under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992. Pursuant to the final rule, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma entered into separate pricing agreements with the DoD in July 2009 and June 2009, respectively. These legislative and regulatory changes, including our DoD pricing agreements, could impact our ability to maximize revenues in the Federal marketplace. As discussed above, recent legislative changes to the 340B drug pricing program, the Medicaid rebate program, and the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit also could impact our revenues. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and our business will be harmed. Product liability and product recalls could harm our business. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient’s condition, serious injury or impairments or even death. This could 41 Table of Contents result in product liability claims and/or recalls of one or more of our products. Xyrem, FazaClo, Luvox CR, Prialt, and Elestrin have boxed warnings in their labels. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves, or by groups seeking to represent a class. While we have not had to defend against any product liability claims to date, as sales of our products increase, we believe it is likely product liability claims will be made against us. The risk of product liability claims may also increase when a company receives a warning letter. We cannot predict the frequency, outcome or cost to defend any such claims. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Partly as a result of product liability lawsuits related to pharmaceutical products, product liability and other types of insurance have become more difficult and costly for pharmaceutical companies to obtain. Our product liability insurance may not cover all of the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, defending a product liability lawsuit is expensive and can divert the attention of key employees from operating our business. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of our suppliers, government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. Any recall of our products could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time and by adversely affecting our reputation. A recall could also result in product liability claims. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition To grow our business, we will need to commit substantial resources, which could result in future losses or otherwise limit our opportunities or affect our ability to operate our business. To grow our business over the longer-term, we will need to commit substantial resources to in-licensing and/or acquiring new products and product candidates, and to costly and time-consuming product development and clinical trials of our product candidates. We will also need to continue to invest in our commercial operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including many of those discussed above, such as: • the revenues from our commercial products and the costs of our commercial operations; • the extent of generic competition for our products; • the cost of acquiring and/or licensing any new products and product candidates; • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of our development and clinical activities; • the cost and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals and of compliance with laws and regulations; • the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of investigations, litigation and/or settlements related to regulatory activities and third-party claims; and • changes in laws and regulations, including, for example, healthcare reform legislation. 42 Table of Contents One of our corporate goals is to expand our business through the licensing, acquisition and/or development of additional products and product candidates. We cannot assure you that our funds will be sufficient to fund these activities if opportunities arise, and we may be unable to expand our business if we do not have sufficient capital or cannot borrow or raise additional capital on attractive terms. In addition, if we use a substantial amount of our funds to acquire or in-license products or product candidates, we may not have sufficient additional funds to conduct all of our operations in the manner we would otherwise choose. We may not be able to successfully maintain our low tax rates, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We are incorporated in Ireland and maintain subsidiaries in the United States and Bermuda. Azur Pharma was able to achieve a low average tax rate through the performance of certain functions and ownership of certain assets in tax-efficient jurisdictions, including Ireland and Bermuda, together with intra-group service and transfer pricing agreements, each on an arm’s length basis. We are continuing a substantially similar structure and arrangements. Taxing authorities, such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, actively audit and otherwise challenge these types of arrangements, and have done so in the pharmaceutical industry. The IRS may challenge our structure and transfer pricing arrangements through an audit or lawsuit. Responding to or defending such a challenge could be expensive and consume time and other resources, and divert management’s time and focus from operating our business. We cannot predict whether taxing authorities will conduct an audit or file a lawsuit challenging this structure, the cost involved in responding to any such audit or lawsuit, or the outcome. If we are unsuccessful, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, and may be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could require us to reduce our operating expenses, decrease efforts in support of our products or seek to raise additional funds, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. Although we are incorporated in Ireland, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Because Azur Pharma was, and we continue to be after the merger, an Irish incorporated entity, we would be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 of the Code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. Because we indirectly acquired all of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s assets through the acquisition of the shares of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock in the merger at the closing, we could be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874. For us to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874 of the Code, either (1) the former stockholders of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. must have owned (within the meaning of Section 7874 of the Code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our ordinary shares by reason of holding shares in Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or (2) we must have substantial business activities in Ireland after the merger (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). The Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. stockholders owned less than 80% of our share capital immediately after the merger by reason of their ownership of shares of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock. As a result, we believe that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. It is possible that the IRS could disagree with the position that the ownership test is satisfied and assert that Section 7874 of the Code applies to treat us as a U.S. corporation following the merger. There is limited guidance regarding the Code Section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test described above. Moreover, new statutory and/or regulatory provisions under Section 7874 of the Code or otherwise could be 43 Table of Contents enacted that adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such provisions could have retroactive application to us, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., our respective shareholders, and/or the merger. Section 7874 of the Code likely will limit Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its U.S. affiliates’ ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset certain U.S. taxable income, if any, generated by taxable transactions following the merger for a period of time following the merger. Following certain acquisitions of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, Section 7874 of the Code limits the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions. Based on the limited guidance available, it is currently expected that this limitation should apply to us. As a result, it is not currently expected that Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. or its U.S. affiliates will be able to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain taxable transactions following the merger. Notwithstanding this limitation, we plan to fully utilize Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s U.S. net operating losses, or NOLs, prior to their expiration. As a result of this limitation, however, it may take Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. longer to use its NOLs. Moreover, contrary to these plans, it is possible that the limitation under Section 7874 of the Code on the utilization of U.S. tax attributes could prevent Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. from fully utilizing its U.S. tax attributes prior to their expiration if Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. does not generate sufficient taxable income. Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s and its U.S. affiliates’ ability to use their net operating losses to offset potential taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due could be limited if they do not generate taxable income in a timely manner or if an “ownership change” pursuant to Section 382 of the Code is triggered. Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its U.S. affiliates’ have a significant amount of NOLs. Their ability to use these NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon their generation of future taxable income before the expiration dates of the NOLs, and we cannot predict with certainty when, or whether, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its U.S. affiliates’ will generate sufficient taxable income to use all of their NOLs. In addition, realization of their NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due could be restricted by annual limitations on use of NOLs triggered by an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Code and similar state provisions. In general, an “ownership change” will occur if, during a three-year rolling period, there is a change of 50% or more in the percentage ownership of a company by 5% shareholders (and certain persons treated as 5% shareholders), as defined in the Code and Treasury Regulations. Section 382 of the Code is an extremely complex provision with respect to which there are many uncertainties. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS to confirm that Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its U.S. affiliates’ have not experienced an “ownership change” for the purposes of Section 328 of the Code, and, therefore, we have not established whether the IRS agrees with our analysis regarding the application of Section 382 of the Code. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we record in connection with the merger become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for the merger, it is expected that we will record a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under U.S. GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets has been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in future periods. As a result of the merger, we have and will continue to incur additional direct and indirect costs. We have and will continue to incur additional costs and expenses in connection with and as a result of the merger. These costs and expenses include professional fees to comply with Irish corporate and tax laws and 44 Table of Contents financial reporting requirements, costs and expenses incurred in connection with holding a majority of the meetings of our board of directors and certain executive management meetings in Ireland, as well as any additional costs we may incur going forward as a result of our new corporate structure. There can be no assurance that these costs will not exceed the costs historically borne by Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares The market price of our ordinary shares has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future, and the value of your investment could decline significantly. Investors who hold our ordinary shares may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased their ordinary shares (or the price at which they purchased their shares Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock prior to the merger). The price of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s common stock has fluctuated significantly from time to time and increased substantially during the past year, and we cannot predict if the price of our ordinary shares will continue to do so. The risk factors described above relating to our business and products could cause the price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly. In addition, the stock market in general, including the market for life sciences companies, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our stock price may be dependent upon the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover our business, and if our results do not meet our analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline if the integration of the businesses of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma is unsuccessful, takes longer than expected or fails to achieve financial benefits to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors, or the effect of the business combination on the financial results of the combined company is otherwise not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our ordinary shares in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our ordinary shares, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of February 21, 2012, we had 56,243,783 ordinary shares outstanding, all of which shares are eligible for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to the volume limitations and manner of sale and other requirements under Rule 144. As of February 21, 2012, the holders of up to approximately 12,601,202 ordinary shares, based on shares outstanding as of that date, were entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of such shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, under an amended and restated investor rights agreement that Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. entered into with these holders in June 2007, which we assumed at the closing of the merger. Certain of our executive officers are entitled to rights under the amended and restated investor rights agreement with respect to registration of the ordinary shares acquired on exercise of their stock options. If such holders, by exercising their registration rights or otherwise, sell a large number of shares, the sale could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. If in the future we file a registration statement and include shares held by these holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights or otherwise, these sales may impair our ability to raise capital. In addition, we have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register our ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our equity incentive and employee stock purchase plans, and intend to file additional registration statements on Form S-8 to register the shares automatically added each year to the share reserves under these plans. 45 Table of Contents Pursuant to the terms of an investor rights agreement dated July 7, 2009 Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. entered into in connection with a private placement completed on July 7, 2009, which agreement we assumed at the closing of the merger, we agreed to file a registration statement under the Securities Act registering the resale of 1,895,734 ordinary shares held by the investors in the July 2009 private placement, as well as the 947,867 ordinary shares now underlying the warrants held by such investors. In addition, if we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act after February 14, 2012, either for our own account or for the account of others, the investors in the private placement are entitled to notice of the registration and are entitled to include, at our expense, their ordinary shares in the registration and any related underwriting, provided, among other conditions, that the underwriters may limit the number of shares to be included in the registration. Pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement dated January 13, 2012 we entered into with the holders of the Azur Pharma’s outstanding ordinary shares as of that date, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of 12,020,616 ordinary shares held by these holders following the closing of the merger to permit these holders to immediately resell their ordinary shares. In addition, we expect that generally, U.S. holders of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. should be taxable on gain recognized, if any, on the receipt of our ordinary shares in exchange for Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock in the merger. Since the historic stockholders of Jazz Pharmaceuticals Inc. received did not receive any cash in exchange for their shares of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock in the merger, these holders may choose to sell the ordinary shares they received in the merger to generate cash to satisfy their tax obligations, which could increase the number of our ordinary shares being sold in the public market and the volatility of the price of our ordinary shares. Our executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates, own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of February 21, 2012, our executive officers and directors, together with the shareholders with which our executive officers and directors are affiliated or associated, beneficially owned approximately 43.3% of our ordinary shares. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates or associates, are likely able to significantly influence the composition of our board of directors, retain the voting power to approve all matters requiring shareholder approval, including mergers and other business combinations and continue to have significant influence over our operations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our ordinary shares, and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our board of directors or management. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies 46 Table of Contents generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. Provisions of our articles of association could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Our articles of association could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. For example, our articles of association: • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred shares with rights and preferences designated by our board; • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings; • stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes; and • require the approval of a supermajority of the voting power of the shares of our share capital entitled to vote generally in the election of directors for shareholders to amend or repeal our articles of association. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our ordinary shares. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Neither Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. nor Azur Pharma has ever declared or paid any cash dividends. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all earnings, if any, to support our operations and our proprietary drug development programs. Even if we propose to pay dividends in the future, we may be unable to do so under Irish law. Under Irish law, dividends may only be paid, and share repurchases and redemptions must generally be funded only out of, “distributable reserves.” Any future determination as to the payment of dividends will, subject to Irish legal requirements, be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Holders of our ordinary shares must rely on increases in the trading price of their shares for returns on their investment in the foreseeable future. A transfer of our ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty. In certain circumstances, the transfer of shares in an Irish incorporated company will be subject to Irish stamp duty, which is a legal obligation of the buyer. This duty is currently charged at the rate of 1.0% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher. Because our ordinary shares are traded on a recognized stock exchange in the United States, an exemption of this stamp duty is available to transfers by shareholders who hold our ordinary shares beneficially through brokers which in turn hold those shares through the Depositary Trust Company, or DTC, to holders who also hold through DTC. However, a transfer by a record holder who holds our ordinary shares directly in his, her or its own name could be subject to this stamp duty. We, in our absolute discretion and insofar as the Companies Acts or any other applicable law permit, may, or may provide that a subsidiary of ours will, pay Irish stamp duty arising on a transfer of our ordinary shares on behalf of the transferee of such ordinary shares. If stamp duty resulting from the transfer of our ordinary shares which would otherwise be payable by the transferee is paid by us or any of our subsidiaries on behalf of the transferee, then in those circumstances, we will, on our behalf or on behalf of our subsidiary (as the case may be), be entitled to 47 Table of Contents (i) seek reimbursement of the stamp duty from the transferee, (ii) set-off the stamp duty against any dividends payable to the transferee of those ordinary shares and (iii) claim a first and permanent lien on the ordinary shares on which stamp duty has been paid by us or our subsidiary for the amount of stamp duty paid. Our lien shall extend to all dividends paid on those ordinary shares. Dividends paid by us may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we will be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. Shareholders that are resident in the United States, European Union member states (other than Ireland) or other countries with which Ireland has signed a tax treaty (whether the treaty has been ratified or not) generally should not be subject to Irish withholding tax so long as the shareholder has provided its broker, for onward transmission to our qualifying intermediary or other designated agent (in the case of shares held beneficially), or us or our transfer agent (in the case of shares held directly), with all the necessary documentation by the appropriate due date prior to payment of the dividend. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 