Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: • changes in advertising demand or the buying strategies of advertisers or the migration of advertising to the internet; • changes in newsprint prices and other costs of materials; • changes in federal or state laws and regulations or their interpretations (including changes in regulations governing the number and types of broadcast and cable system properties, newspapers and licenses that a person may control in a given market or in total or the changes in spectrum allocation policies); • changes in legislation or customs relating to the collection, management and aggregation and use of consumer information through telemarketing and electronic communication efforts; • the availability of quality broadcast programming at competitive prices; • changes in network affiliation agreements, including increased sharing of retransmission revenue; • quality and rating of network over-the-air broadcast programs, including programs changing networks and changing competitive dynamics regarding how and when programs are made available to our viewers; • effects of the loss of commercial inventory resulting from uninterrupted television news coverage and potential advertising cancellations due to war or terrorist acts; • effects of the rapidly changing nature of the publishing, broadcasting and printing industries, including general business issues, competitive issues and the introduction of new technologies; • an other than temporary decline in operating results and enterprise value that could lead to further non-cash impairment charges due to the impairment of goodwill, broadcast licenses, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment; • the impact of changing economic and financial market conditions and interest rates on our liquidity, on the value of our pension plan assets and on the availability of capital; • our ability to remain in compliance with the terms of our credit agreement; • changes in interest rates; • the outcome of pending or future litigation; • energy costs; • the availability and effect of acquisitions, investments, dispositions and other capital expenditures including share repurchases on our results of operations, financial condition or stock price; and • changes in general economic conditions. We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which we have made as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Our business segments are based on the organizational structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Our reportable business segments are: (i) publishing; (ii) broadcasting; and (iii) corporate. Our publishing segment consists of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, which serves as the only major daily newspaper for the Milwaukee metropolitan area, and several community newspapers and shoppers in Wisconsin and Florida. Our broadcasting segment consists of 33 radio stations and 13 television stations in 12 states and the operation of a television station under a local marketing agreement. Our interactive media assets build on our strong publishing and broadcasting brands. Our corporate segment consists of unallocated corporate expenses and revenue eliminations. We were founded in 1882 as a newspaper publisher serving Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Our media business mix was expanded in 1927 when we signed on radio station WTMJ-AM, and again in 1947 when we put WTMJ-TV on the air. In 1937, Harry J. Grant founded our employee ownership plan, which contributed significantly to our company’s positive culture and growth through its termination in 2003, in conjunction with our initial public offering. We believe our current capital structure allows us to continue our longstanding tradition of employee ownership. We have been able to attract and retain motivated people who have a passion for the business and a level of commitment and sense of accountability that is heightened due to our business culture and employees’ ability to participate in ownership. Our culture is reinforced by our strong commitment to high ethical standards. Our revenue was $376.8 million, $365.5 million and $451.7 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The revenue generated by our operating segments as a percentage of our consolidated revenue for the last three years is shown below: 2010 2009 2008 Publishing 48.5 % 53.1 % 53.5 % Broadcasting 51.6 46.9 46.5 Corporate eliminations (0.1 ) — — Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % More information regarding us is available at our website at www.journalcommunications.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are made available to the public at no charge, other than a reader’s own internet access charges, through a link appearing on our website. We provide access to such material through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Publishing Our publishing business is conducted through our wholly owned subsidiaries, Journal Sentinel, Inc. and Journal Community Publishing Group, Inc., and consists of our daily newspaper, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, and our community newspapers and shoppers. Our publishing business accounted for 48.5% of our revenue for the year ended December 26, 2010. Within our publishing segment, our daily newspaper accounted for 83.3% of our publishing revenue. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 13, “Segment Reporting,” to our consolidated financial statements for additional financial information regarding our publishing business. 2 Table of Contents Daily Newspaper Published continuously from 1882, our daily newspaper has the largest circulation among all newspapers published in Wisconsin, with a six-month average net paid circulation reported to the Audit Bureau of Circulations in our Publisher’s Statement at September 30, 2010 of 331,171 on Sunday and 183,636 daily. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel serves as the only major daily and Sunday newspaper for the Milwaukee metropolitan area. According to a 2010 readership survey conducted by Scarborough Research, the Sunday Milwaukee Journal Sentinel ranks number one in readership among the 50 highest populated markets in the United States and the daily newspaper ranks number two. Over the course of a week, readership of our daily newspaper, online and niche products ranks second with a 61% penetration rate. These rankings are calculated by dividing the number of adults reading an average issue of the newspaper in a newspaper’s Designated Market Area (DMA) by the number of persons over the age of 18 in the newspaper’s DMA. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel’s DMA, which ranks among the top 50 in the United States, consists of the 10-county area surrounding Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Our daily newspaper and its reporting staff surpassed its record set in 2009 and won more national awards in 2010 than in any previous year. The investigative series “Cashing in on Kids,” which exposed massive corruption and fraud in Wisconsin’s public child care subsidy program, received four of the five top national journalism awards in 2010, including the Pulitzer Prize for local reporting. Investigative Reporters and Editors awarded its first-ever award for breaking news investigations to several members of the Journal Sentinel staff for “Holes in the System,” which revealed flaws that allowed a serial murderer to evade mandatory DNA testing that could have resulted in charges before he killed some of his victims. The National Council on Crime and Delinquency gave its PASS award—for work on US criminal juvenile justice and child welfare systems—and the Casey Medal for Meritorious Journalism gave its award to the staff for their “Fatal Care” series that revealed problems in the state-run Bureau of Milwaukee Child Welfare. Separately, we were also recognized for news section excellence by the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, the Associated Press Sports Editors, the Association of Food Journalists, and the American Association of Sunday and Features Editors. In addition to our traditional print media, we operate a number of websites that provide editorial and advertising content, including JSOnline.com, MilwaukeeMarketplace.com, Milwaukeemoms.com and the MyCommunityNOW family of 26 community websites. Also, we produce a subscription-based website, PackerInsider.com, dedicated to coverage of the Green Bay Packers. Our employment site, JobNoggin.com, which is co-branded with Monster Worldwide, Inc. (Monster®), combines the promotional strength of our daily newspaper, JSOnline.com and our Milwaukee television and radio properties with Monster®’s product and brand. Our daily newspaper is a member of the Yahoo! Consortium, a newspaper and Yahoo! web portal partnership that shares content, advertising and technology. In January 2009, our daily newspaper launched a co-branded online automotive offering under a new franchise agreement with CarSoup of Minnesota, Inc. (CarSoup.com). In 2010, online revenue of $10.8 million for Journal Interactive at our daily newspaper increased 14.4% compared to $9.5 million in 2009 due to an increase in retail sponsorship and classified packages sold. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel is distributed primarily by independent contract carriers throughout southeastern Wisconsin. Agents deliver the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel to single copy outlets throughout the rest of Wisconsin. The following table sets forth our average net paid circulation: Six-Months Ended September 30 12-Months Ended March 31 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Daily (Five-day average) 183,636 190,841 212,157 188,644 207,717 219,214 Sunday 331,171 334,240 375,432 331,184 368,686 387,756 Circulation revenue accounted for 32.9% of our daily newspaper’s total revenue in 2010. The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel single copy prices are $1.00 for daily, following a price increase in January 2011, and $2.00 for Sunday in our five county primary market area. We believe our average net paid circulation is decreasing due to, 3 Table of Contents among other factors, increased competition for readers from new media products, other free sources, our decision to discontinue certain third-party programs and economic pressures on consumers. Advertising revenue accounted for 55.9% of our daily newspaper’s total revenue in 2010. Our daily newspaper experienced decreases in revenue in most advertising categories in 2010 compared to 2009 due to the secular influences affecting the newspaper industry and the continued economic uncertainty. Other revenue, which consists of revenue from promotional and commercial distribution and commercial printing revenue accounted for 11.2% of our daily newspaper’s total revenue in 2010. Our state-of-the-art printing facility allows us to leverage our existing assets to sign long term agreements to print other daily newspapers, such as USA Today, Kenosha News, Pioneer Press and others. We believe we provide high quality, competitive pricing and close proximity to their readers. Community Newspapers and Shoppers We own and operate community newspapers and shoppers in Wisconsin and Florida and a printing plant in Wisconsin through our subsidiary, Journal Community Publishing Group, Inc. Our community newspapers have a combined paid and free average weekly distribution of approximately 230,000. Our community newspapers focus on local news and events that are of interest to the local residents. In some markets, our community newspapers are the only source of local news. Our shoppers have a combined average weekly distribution of approximately 257,000. Shoppers are free-distribution publications, primarily carrier-delivered to each household in a geographic area, featuring advertisements primarily from local and regional businesses. A few of our shoppers also include local interest stories and weekly columns, such as fishing/hunting reports, obituaries and television listings. We also publish niche publications that appeal to very specific advertisers and readers, with a combined paid and free average weekly distribution of approximately 76,000. A few examples of the niche products are lifestyle, sports, automotive and boat enthusiast and agricultural publications. Advertising revenue and circulation revenue accounted for 84.0% and 6.2%, respectively, of our community newspapers’ and shoppers’ total revenue in 2010. In addition to our publishing operations, we also provide commercial printing services, including cold-web printing, sheet-fed printing, electronic prepress, mailing services, bindery and inserting, mostly for other weekly and monthly publications. Revenue from commercial printing accounted for 9.8% of our community newspapers’ and shoppers’ total revenue in 2010. Our community newspapers, shoppers and niche publications groups are as follows: Number of 2010AverageDistribution 2009AverageDistribution NichePublications Newspapers Shoppers 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Northern Wisconsin 263,000 360,000 5 8 8 12 3 5 Southeastern Wisconsin 187,000 225,000 14 14 4 4 — — Florida 113,000 135,000 4 4 1 1 4 5 Newsprint The basic raw material of newspapers is newsprint. We currently purchase the majority of our estimated newsprint requirements from a single supplier. We may purchase our remaining estimated newsprint requirements in the spot market from other suppliers. We believe we will continue to receive an adequate supply of newsprint for our needs. Newsprint prices fluctuate based upon market factors, which include newsprint production capacity, currency exchange rates, manufacturer’s cost drivers, inventory levels, demand and consumption. Price fluctuations for newsprint can 4 Table of Contents have a significant effect on our results of operations. The average net price per ton was $613 in 2010 compared to an average net price per ton of $574 in 2009. Our consumption of newsprint decreased to 26,309 metric tons in 2010 from 27,598 metric tons in 2009, and our total cost of newsprint increased $0.3 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease in consumption in 2010 at our publishing businesses was primarily due to decreases in average net paid circulation, run-of-press (ROP) advertising, waste, and a decrease in content pages. Based on the consumption of newsprint in 2010 by our daily newspaper and by our community newspapers and shoppers, a $10 per ton increase or decrease in the price of newsprint would increase or decrease our total cost of newsprint by $0.3 million. Industry and Competition Newspaper publishing is the oldest segment of the media industry. Metropolitan and community newspapers often represent the primary medium for news and local advertising due to their historic importance to the communities they serve. Over the past few years, fundamentals in the newspaper industry have deteriorated significantly. Retail and classified ROP advertising have decreased from historic levels due in part to department store consolidation, weakened employment, automotive and real estate economics and a migration of advertising to the internet and other advertising forms. Circulation declines and online competition have also negatively impacted newspaper industry revenues. Additionally, the continued housing market downturn has adversely impacted the newspaper industry, including real estate classified advertising as well as the home improvement, furniture and financial services advertising categories. However, we believe the rate of deterioration of these fundamentals has moderated based on our results for 2010. Advertising revenue is the largest component of a newspaper’s total revenue and it is affected by cyclical changes in national and regional economic conditions. Classified advertising is generally the most sensitive to economic cycles and secular changes in the newspaper business because it is driven primarily by the demand for employment, real estate transactions and automotive sales. Newspaper advertising revenue is seasonal and our publishing business tends to see increased revenue due to increased advertising activity during certain holidays. We believe newspapers and their online and niche products continue to be one of the most effective mediums for retail and classified advertising because they allow advertisers to promote the price and selection of goods and to maximize household reach within a local retail trading area. Notwithstanding the advertising advantages newspapers offer, newspapers have many competitors for advertising dollars and paid circulation. These competitors include local, regional and national newspapers, shoppers, magazines, broadcast and cable television, radio, direct mail, Yellow Pages, the internet and other media. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels, while competition for circulation revenue is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality, and customer service. On occasion, our businesses compete with each other for regional and local advertising, particularly in the Milwaukee market. Broadcasting Our broadcasting business is conducted through our wholly owned subsidiary, Journal Broadcast Corporation, and its subsidiaries, which together operate 33 radio stations and 13 television stations in 12 states and a television station under a local marketing agreement. Our broadcasting business accounted for 51.6% of our revenue for the year ended December 26, 2010. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 13, “Segment Reporting,” to our consolidated financial statements for additional financial information regarding our broadcasting business. Our radio and television stations focus on providing targeted and relevant local programming that is responsive to the interests of the communities in which we compete. We promote a local focus that allows our stations and radio clusters to serve listeners, viewers and advertisers more effectively, strengthens each station’s brand identity and allows our stations to provide effective marketing solutions for advertisers by reaching their targeted audiences. 5 Table of Contents In an effort to maximize our operating margins, we have implemented a centralized management approach to certain functions such as engineering, IT, finance and human resources to generate economies of scale and incorporate best practices. We intend to continue to explore cost reduction and efficiency measures across our stations and pursue market share and ratings growth which we believe will generate increased operating efficiency and revenue, and drive improvement in operating margin. In five of our markets, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Boise, Idaho; Tucson, Arizona; Omaha, Nebraska and Palm Springs, California, we either own and operate both television and radio stations or own and operate more than one television station. We believe multiple properties in a market help us to better serve advertisers, viewers and listeners and maximize our operating margins. Television Broadcasting Based on the November 2010 Nielsen ratings book, we are ranked among the top three stations in terms of station audience rating in four of the ten markets in which our television stations operate. WTMJ-TV, our Milwaukee television station, had the top-rated late night local newscast (Monday-Friday) in its DMA in 79 of the previous 85 ratings periods (based on the percentage of the total potential household audience). In 2010, revenue from television operations accounted for 64.4% of our broadcasting revenue. Our television stations are: Station andNetwork Affiliation Market YearAcquired StationMarketRank(1) StationAudienceRank(1) TotalStations inMarket(2) ExpirationDate ofNetworkAffiliation ExpirationDate of FCCLicense(7) WTMJ-TV NBC Milwaukee, WI 1947 3 9 15 12/31/2012 12/01/2005 (8) KTNV-TV ABC Las Vegas, NV 1979 4 5 13 12/31/2012 10/01/2014 WSYM-TV FOX Lansing, MI 1984 4 5 7 8/30/2010 (9) 10/01/2013 KMIR-TV NBC Palm Springs, CA 1999 4+ 6 10 12/31/2012 12/01/2014 KPSE-LP(3)(6) MNT Palm Springs, CA 2008 N/A N/A 10 10/02/2011 12/01/2014 KIVI-TV ABC Boise, ID 2001 3 8 13 12/31/2012 10/01/2014 KNIN-TV(6) CW Boise, ID 2009 N/A N/A 13 8/28/2011 10/01/2014 KSAW-LP(3) ABC Twin Falls, ID 2001 4+ 4 8 12/31/2012 10/01/2014 WGBA-TV NBC Green Bay/ Appleton, WI 2004 4 8 7 1/01/2013 12/01/2013 WACY-TV(4)(6) MNT Green Bay/ Appleton, WI 2004 N/A N/A 7 10/02/2011 N/A KGUN-TV ABC Tucson, AZ 2005 1+ 11 17 2/05/2012 10/01/2014 KWBA-TV(6) CW Tucson, AZ 2008 N/A N/A 17 8/31/2016 10/01/2014 WFTX-TV FOX Naples/Fort Myers, FL 2005 5 4 9 8/30/2010 (9) 2/01/2013 KMTV-TV CBS Omaha, NE 2005 3 10 9 9/18/2016 6/01/2014 (1) Station market rank is based upon station audience ratings, which equal the percentage of the total potential household audience in the DMA. Station audience share equals the percentages of the audience in the DMA actually watching our television station. The percentages are based on surveys conducted 5:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m., seven days a week, as published in the November 2010 Nielsen ratings book. A “+” indicates a tie with another station in the market. (2) Includes all television stations whose city of origin is within the DMA that meet the minimum reporting standards. (3) Low-power television station. (4) We operate WACY-TV under a local marketing agreement between WGBA-TV and WACY-TV. 6 Table of Contents (5) Green Bay, WI and Appleton, WI are considered one DMA. (6) KPSE-LP, KNIN-TV, WACY-TV and KWBA-TV did not qualify to be reported in the November 2010 Nielsen ratings book. (7) FCC (aka broadcast) licenses are granted for maximum terms of eight years and are subject to renewal upon application to the FCC. Refer to “—Regulation” for further discussion of the FCC license renewal process. (8) Renewal pending. (9) Renewal pending. We are currently in negotiations with FOX. The affiliation by a station with one of the four major networks (NBC, ABC, CBS and FOX) has a significant impact on the composition of the station’s programming, revenue, expenses and operations. Lower ratings of NBC network programming have continued to have an adverse affect on revenue in our Milwaukee, Green Bay, and Palm Springs markets. We believe all of our television stations are strong affiliates with good relationships with the respective networks. In all of our markets and regardless of network affiliation, we focus on delivering leading local news programming, locally produced programming and contracting for popular syndicated programming with the objective of maximizing our ratings and in turn our share of advertising spending in a given market. Despite the recent economic challenges, we believe that Las Vegas, Boise, Tucson and Naples/Fort Myers are markets with attractive long-term demographic and growth profiles and that as a result, there is significant opportunity for growth and operating improvement at these stations. Television advertising revenue and rates in even-numbered years typically benefit from political and issue advertising because there tends to be more pressure on available inventory as the demand for advertising increases and we have the opportunity to increase the average unit rates we charge our customers. Television political and issue advertising revenue was $15.4 million in 2010 compared to $2.3 million in 2009, which was generally considered a non-election year. Olympics-related advertising on our three NBC affiliates was $2.2 million in 2010. NBC has purchased the right to broadcast the Olympics in 2012, and we expect higher revenue compared to 2011 because the expected increased ratings during the Olympic time period for our three NBC affiliates will provide the opportunity to sell advertising at premium rates. National automotive revenue is heavily placed in prime time, which helps drive average unit rates among other advertisers. When that placement doesn’t occur in prime time, as was the case in 2009, it negatively affects demand and does not allow us the opportunity to increase the rates we can charge our advertisers even when the sell-out levels are high. We currently have retransmission consent agreements with virtually all distributors (cable, satellite and telecommunications) in our local markets for the rights to carry our signals and local programming in their pay television services to consumers. Our television stations experienced a $2.0 million increase in retransmission consent revenue in 2010 due to contractual annual rate increases and the effective dates of several contracts. These agreements are for multiple years with set rate increases and are based upon the number of subscribers to the cable, satellite or telecommunications systems. We have made substantial investments in digital transmission equipment at our stations and are fully compliant with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) mandates on digital transmission. We anticipate investing in digital infrastructure in several of our television markets as we make the continuing transition to HDTV (high-definition television). Also, we expect these investments to create additional operating efficiencies and improve the transfer of program content to our internet websites. Radio Broadcasting Based on the Fall 2010 Arbitron ratings book, we have the number one station in terms of station audience rank in three of the eight markets in which our radio stations operate, including in Milwaukee, Wisconsin where WTMJ-AM has been the top-rated radio station for 60 consecutive Arbitron rating periods. We have grown our radio operations primarily through acquisitions of stations in mid-sized growth markets. We have acquired 17 of our 33 radio stations since 1999. During 2009, we sold radio stations KGEM-AM and KCID-AM in Boise, Idaho. In 2010, revenue from radio operations accounted for 35.6% of our broadcasting revenue. 7 Table of Contents Our radio stations are: Market and Station YearAcquired Format StationAudienceRank(1) TotalStationsinMarket(2) FCCLicenseClass(3) ExpirationDate of FCCLicense(6) Milwaukee, WI WTMJ-AM(5) 1927 News/Talk/Sports 1 30 B 12/01/2012 WLWK-FM(5) 1959 Classic Hits 10 30 B 12/01/2012 Omaha, NE KEZO-FM(5) 1995 Rock 9+ 20 C 6/01/2013 KKCD-FM(5) 1995 Classic Rock 12 20 C2 6/01/2013 KSRZ-FM(5) 1998 Hot Adult Contemporary 5 20 C 6/01/2013 KXSP-AM(4) 1999 Sports N/A 20 B 6/01/2013 KQCH-FM(5) 1999 Contemporary Hits 2 20 C 6/01/2013 Tucson, AZ KFFN-AM 1996 Sports 21+ 24 C 10/01/2013 KMXZ-FM(5) 1996 Soft Adult Contemporary 2 24 C 10/01/2013 KQTH-FM(5) 1996 News/Talk 11 24 A 10/01/2013 KGMG-FM 1998 Oldies 16 24 C2 10/01/2013 Knoxville, TN WKTI-AM(4) 1998 Nostalgia N/A 20 D 8/01/2012 WCYQ-FM(5) 1997 Country 8 20 A 8/01/2012 WWST-FM(5) 1997 Contemporary Hits 3 20 C1 8/01/2012 WKHT-FM(5) 1998 Rhythmic Contemporary Hits 4 20 A 8/01/2012 Boise, ID KJOT-FM 1998 Rock 14+ 22 C 10/01/2013 KQXR-FM 1998 Active Rock 12 20 C1 10/01/2013 KTHI-FM 1998 Classic Hits 9+ 20 C 10/01/2013 KRVB-FM 2000 Adult Alternative 17+ 20 C 10/01/2013 Wichita, KS KFDI-FM(5) 1999 Country 1 23 C 6/01/2013 KICT-FM(5) 1999 Rock 7 23 C1 6/01/2013 KFXJ-FM(5) 1999 Classic Rock 9 23 C2 6/01/2013 KLIO-AM 1999 Oldies 17+ 23 B 6/01/2013 KYQQ-FM 1999 Regional Mexican 16 23 C 6/01/2013 KFTI-FM 2000 Classic Country 14 23 C1 6/01/2013 Springfield, MO KSGF-AM/FM 1999/2003 News/Talk (Simulcast) 8+ 19 B/C3 2/01/2013 KTTS-FM 1999 Country 1 19 C 2/01/2013 KSPW-FM 1999 Contemporary Hits 3 19 C2 2/01/2013 KRVI-FM 2003 Variety Hits 10 19 C3 2/01/2013 Tulsa, OK KKFAQ-AM(5) 1999 News/Talk 14 25 A 6/01/2013 KVOO-FM(5) 1999 Contemporary Country 5 25 C 6/01/2013 KXBL-FM(5) 1999 Classic Country 13 25 C1 6/01/2013 (1) Station audience rank equals the ranking of each station, in its market, according to the Fall 2010 Arbitron ratings book. The ranking is determined based on the estimated share of persons 12 years and older listening during an average 15-minute increment (also known as “average quarterly hour,” or “AQH,” share) occurring Monday-Sunday between 6:00 a.m. and midnight. A “+” indicates a tie with another station in the market. 8 Table of Contents (2) Includes stations qualified to be reported in the Fall 2010 Arbitron ratings book. In order to be qualified to be reported in a diary market, a station must have received five or more minutes of listening in at least 10 diaries in the market from midnight to midnight, Monday through Sunday, during the survey period. In order to be qualified to be reported in a Portable People Meter (PPM) market, a station must have received five or more minutes of listening from at least one PPM panelist and an Average Weekly Cumulative Rating of at least .495 during Monday-Sunday between 6:00 a.m. and midnight, during the survey period. (3) The FCC license class is a designation for the type of license based upon the radio broadcast service area according to radio broadcast rules compiled in the Code of Federal Regulations. (4) WKTI-AM and KXSP-AM did not qualify to be reported in the Fall 2010 Arbitron ratings book. (5) Stations that are broadcasting in digital. (6) FCC (aka broadcast) licenses are granted for maximum terms of eight years and are subject to renewal upon application to the FCC. Refer to “—Regulation” for further discussion of the FCC license renewal process. We employ a variety of sales-related and programming strategies. Our sales-related strategies include maximizing our share of the advertisers’ advertising spending. We believe development of local station clusters allows us to maximize market share because it allows us to offer a variety of format alternatives to appeal to a broader range of local advertisers. Our programming strategy includes developing and retaining local on-air talent to drive ratings. We have long-term contracts with many of our on-air personalities. In addition, our Milwaukee radio station, WTMJ-AM, currently maintains exclusive radio broadcast rights for the Green Bay Packers, Milwaukee Brewers and Milwaukee Bucks, and arranges a statewide radio network for the broadcast of their games. Most of our radio broadcasting revenue is generated from the sale of local advertising, which includes non-traditional advertising programs. Non-traditional advertising refers to initiatives which attract new local advertisers, including the creation of new local content and programs that combine television, radio or print with digital. The balance of broadcasting revenue is generated from the sale of national advertising, political and issue advertising and other sources. We have predetermined the number of commercials that are broadcast each hour, depending on the format of a particular station. We attempt to determine the number of commercials broadcast hourly that can maximize available revenue dollars without diminishing listening levels. Although the number of advertisements broadcast during a given time period may vary, the total number of advertisements broadcast on a particular station generally does not vary significantly from year to year, unless there has been a format change. We have aligned our radio stations in clusters within a market, in many cases building out the cluster around a lead station. We seek to build a unique and differentiated brand position at each station within a cluster so that we can offer distinct solutions for a variety of advertisers in any given market. This clustering strategy has allowed us to target our stations’ formats and sales efforts to better serve advertisers and listeners as well as leverage operating expenses to maximize the performance of each station and the cluster. We are currently broadcasting 17 radio stations in digital. Industry and Competition We compete with other radio and television stations, newspapers, cable television, satellite television, direct mail services, billboards, and the internet and, in the future, may also compete with the satellite radio technology for advertising dollars. We believe some of the factors an advertiser considers when choosing an advertising medium include its overall marketing strategy and reaching its targeted audience in the most cost-effective manner. In both radio and television broadcasting, revenue is derived primarily from advertising. Ratings, which estimate the number of listeners or viewers tuning in to a given station, highly influence competition in broadcasting because they affect the advertising rates the broadcaster can charge—higher ratings generally mean the broadcaster can charge higher rates for advertising. By having a cluster of several stations within one market, we can offer advertisers the opportunity to purchase air time on more than one of our stations in order to reach a broader audience. 9 Table of Contents Revenues in the broadcast industry are derived primarily from the sale of advertising time to local, national and political and issue advertisers and, to a lesser extent, from barter, digital revenues, retransmission fees, network compensation and other revenues. Because television and radio broadcasters rely upon advertising revenue, they are subject to cyclical changes in the economy. The size of advertisers’ budgets, which are affected by broad economic trends, affects the radio industry in general and the revenue of individual television stations, in particular. Other than the political and issue and automotive categories, our broadcasting business continues to experience an uneven economic recovery across the markets we operate in due to continued challenges in employment and the housing markets. Our broadcasting business also is affected by audience fragmentation as audiences have an increasing number of options to access news and other programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations, the adoption of competitive formats by existing stations and the inability to retain popular on-air talent could result in lower ratings, which could in turn reduce advertising revenue. Technology can play an important role in competition as the ratings each station receives also depend upon the strength of the station’s signal in each market and, therefore, the number of listeners who have access to the signal. We continue to invest in the technology needed to maintain, and, where possible, strengthen our signals. Commercial television stations generally fall into one of three categories. The first category of stations includes those affiliated with one of the four major national networks (NBC, ABC, CBS and FOX). The second category includes stations affiliated with more recently developed national networks, such CW and MyNetwork TV (MNT). The third category includes independent stations that are not affiliated with any network and rely principally on local and syndicated programming. Affiliation with a television network can have a significant influence on the revenue of a television station because the audience ratings generated by a network’s programming can affect the rates at which a station can sell advertising time. Generally, each station determines rates and receives all of the revenue, net of agency commissions, for national and local spot advertising. Recent discussions between certain national networks and cable, satellite and telecommunications providers suggest that the national networks will be seeking an increase in fees, which could include programming fees, from their affiliates when the current affiliation agreements expire. The national networks believe they are due a portion of the retransmission revenue the affiliates generate from its agreements with the cable, satellite and telecommunications providers. Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the broadcasting industry and are primarily due to fluctuations in advertising expenditures by retailers and automobile manufacturers. Broadcast advertising is typically strongest in the second and fourth quarters of the year, which coincides with increased advertising around certain holidays. Historically, the second quarter tends to show an increase in automotive advertising as well as increases in tourism and travel advertising before the summer months. Television advertising revenue and rates in even-numbered years typically benefit from political and issue advertising because there tends to be more pressure on available inventory as the demand for advertising increases and we have the opportunity to increase average unit rates we charge our customers. Compliance with Environmental Laws As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. Compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations may require us to make future expenditures. Regulation Our television and radio businesses are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the United States. 10 Table of Contents Introduction Our television and radio broadcasting operations are subject to regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (which we refer to as the Communications Act). Under authority of the Communications Act, the FCC, among other things, assigns frequency bands for broadcast and other uses; determines the location, frequency and operating power of stations; grants permits and licenses to construct and operate television and radio stations on particular frequencies; issues, revokes, modifies and renews radio and television broadcast station licenses; regulates equipment used by stations; determines whether to approve changes in ownership or control of station licenses; regulates the content of some forms of programming; adopts and implements regulations and policies which directly or indirectly affect the ownership, operations and profitability of broadcasting stations; and has the power to impose penalties for violations of its rules. Licensed broadcast stations must pay FCC regulatory and application fees and comply with various rules promulgated under the Communications Act that regulate, among other things, political advertising, sponsorship identification, closed captioning of certain television programming, obscene, indecent and profane broadcasts, and technical operations, including limits on radio frequency radiation. Additionally, the FCC’s rules require licensees to implement equal employment opportunity outreach programs and maintain records and make filings with the FCC evidencing such efforts. The following is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act and specific FCC rules and policies. The summaries are not intended to describe all present and proposed statutes and FCC rules and regulations that impact our television and radio operations. Failure to observe the provisions of the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules and policies can result in the imposition of various sanctions, including monetary forfeitures, the grant of “short-term” (less than the maximum term) license renewal or, for particularly egregious violations, the denial of a license renewal application, the revocation of a license or the withholding of approval for acquisition of additional broadcast properties. Broadcast Licenses/Renewals The Communications Act permits the operation of a broadcast station only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of a license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants broadcast licenses for specified periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms (ordinarily for the maximum eight years). Generally, the FCC renews a broadcast license upon a finding that (i) the broadcast station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or other FCC rules which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. After considering these factors, the FCC may renew a broadcast station’s license, either with conditions or without, or it may designate the renewal application for hearing. Although there can be no assurance that our licenses will be renewed, we have not to date had a violation of the FCC’s regulations that jeopardized the renewal of our licenses, and we are not currently aware of any facts that would prevent their renewal. On November 1, 2005, the Milwaukee Public Interest Media Coalition (“MPIMC”) filed a petition at the FCC asking it to deny the pending license renewal applications of all eleven commercial television stations in the Milwaukee Designated Market Area (DMA), including our station, WTMJ-TV, on the grounds that the stations failed to provide adequate coverage of state and local issues during the 2004 election campaign. In June 2007, the FCC issued an Order denying MPIMC’s Petition. In July 2007, MPIMC filed a Petition for Reconsideration with the FCC requesting it to reconsider the denial of MPIMC’s Petition to Deny. We opposed MPIMC’s Petition for Reconsideration and in July 2008, the FCC issued a decision denying the Petition for Reconsideration. In August 2008, MPIMC filed a second Petition for Reconsideration of the FCC’s June 2007 Order. We filed an Opposition to MPIMC’s Second Petition in August 2008. The FCC dismissed MPIMC’s Second Petition on January 12, 2009. On February 16, 2010, MPIMC filed an Application for Review requesting the FCC to review the dismissal of MPIMC’s Second Petition. We filed an Opposition to MPIMC’s Application for Review jointly with several other television stations in the Milwaukee DMA, and MPIMC filed a reply. By letter dated December 10, 2010, the FCC 11 Table of Contents dismissed MPIMC’s Application For Review. On January 10, 2011, MPIMC filed another Application for Review requesting the FCC to vacate its December 10, 2010 order and consider MPIMC’s February 10, 2010 Application for Review on its merits. On January 25, 2011, we filed an Opposition to MPIMC’s latest Application for Review jointly with several other television stations in the Milwaukee DMA. Our Opposition stated that the Application for Review was deficient and requested that it be dismissed. Ownership Restrictions The Communications Act and FCC rules and policies include a number of limitations regarding the number and reach of broadcast stations that any person or entity may own, directly or by attribution. FCC approval is also required for transfers of control and assignments of station licenses. A person or entity requesting FCC approval to acquire a radio or television station license must demonstrate that the acquisition complies with the FCC’s ownership rules or that a waiver of the rules is in the public interest. The FCC is required to review quadrennially the following media ownership rules and to modify, repeal or retain any rules as it determines to be in the public interest: the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule; the local radio ownership rule; the radio-television cross-ownership rule; the dual network rule; and the local television ownership rule. In 2003, the FCC completed a comprehensive review of its ownership rules and adopted revised rules. The FCC’s new rules were to have become effective on September 4, 2003. However, a number of parties sought reconsideration of the new rules and others filed judicial appeals. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit issued a stay of the new rules on September 3, 2003. Then, in an opinion issued on June 24, 2004, the court remanded most of the revised rules to the FCC for additional analysis and justification. In 2008, the FCC released a Report and Order that modified only the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule to permit cross-ownership of one newspaper and one television or radio station in the top twenty markets under certain circumstances, and establishing a waiver procedure for such combinations in markets smaller than the top twenty. The FCC also reinstated the radio television cross-ownership rule, which had been repealed in 2003, reinstated the local television ownership rule as it had been in effect prior to 2003, and affirmed the local radio ownership rule as adopted in 2003. The FCC stated that newspaper broadcast combinations that were grandfathered in 1975 when the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule was adopted, including our Milwaukee operations, will continue to be grandfathered. The FCC’s 2008 Order is currently on appeal. In May 2010, the FCC released a Notice of Inquiry (NOI) as the initial step of its 2010 quadrennial review of its media ownership rules. The NOI solicited comments on a number of broad-based questions intended to define the analytical framework of the statutorily-mandated quadrennial review. The FCC’s ownership rules that are currently in effect are briefly summarized below. Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership Rule. Under the currently effective newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership Rule, unless grandfathered or subject to waiver, no party can have an attributable interest in both a daily English-language newspaper and either a television station or a radio station in the same market if specified signal contours of the television station or the radio station encompass the entire community in which the newspaper is published. Our media operations in Milwaukee are grandfathered under this rule. Local Radio Ownership Rule. The local radio ownership rule limits the number of radio stations an entity may own in a given market depending on the size of the radio market. Specifically, in a radio market with 45 or more commercial and noncommercial radio stations, a party may own, operate, or control up to eight commercial radio stations, not more than five of which are in the same service (AM or FM). In a radio market with between 30 and 44 radio stations, a party may own, operate, or control up to seven commercial radio stations, not more than four of which are in the same service. In a radio market with between 15 and 29 radio stations, a party may own, operate, or control up to six commercial radio stations, not more than four of which are in the same service. In a radio market with 14 or fewer radio stations, a party may own, operate, or control up to five commercial radio stations, not more than three of which are in the same service, except that a party may not own, operate, or control more than 50% of the stations in the market, except for combinations of one AM and one FM station, which are permitted in any size market. For stations located in a market in which the Arbitron ratings service 12 Table of Contents provides ratings, the definition of “radio market” is based on the radio market to which BIA Financial Network assigns the affected radio stations. For stations that are not in an Arbitron market, the market definition is based on technical service areas, pending a further FCC rulemaking. Also under the rule, a radio station that provides more than 15% of another in-market station’s weekly programming or sells more than 15% of another in-market station’s weekly advertising will be deemed to have an attributable interest in the brokered station. Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule. The radio-television cross-ownership rule generally allows common ownership of one or two television stations and up to six radio stations, or, in certain circumstances, one television station and seven radio stations, in any market where at least 20 independent voices would remain after the combination; two television stations and up to four radio stations in a market where at least 10 independent voices would remain after the combination; and one television and one radio station notwithstanding the number of independent voices in the market. A “voice” generally includes independently owned, same-market commercial and noncommercial broadcast television and radio stations, newspapers of certain minimum circulation, and one cable system per market. Local Television Ownership Rule. Under the local television ownership rule, one party may own, operate, or control up to two television stations in a market, so long as the market would have at least eight independently owned full power television stations after the combination and at least one of the stations is not one of the top-four-rated stations (based on audience share) in the television market. The rule also permits the ownership, operation or control of two television stations in a market as long as the stations’ Noise Limited Service contours do not overlap. The FCC may waive this rule to permit ownership, operation or control of these television stations in a market that will not otherwise be permissible if one of the stations is in involuntary bankruptcy, is a “failed” station, or is “failing” (i.e. stations with negative cash flow and less than a four share all day audience rating). Under the rule, a television station that provides more than 15% of another in-market station’s weekly programming will be deemed to have an attributable interest in the brokered station. Dual Network Rule. The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major networks—ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC—from merging with each other. Television National Audience Reach Limitation. A person or entity is prohibited from having an attributable interest in television stations whose aggregate audience reach exceeds 39% of the television households in the United States. In calculating the number of households a station reaches, the FCC attributes a UHF station with only 50% of the television households in the market. The FCC is precluded by statute from modifying this rule in connection with its mandated quadrennial review of the ownership rules. Attribution of Ownership. An “attributable” interest for purposes of the FCC’s broadcast ownership rules generally includes: (i) equity and debt interests which combined exceed 33% of a licensee’s total assets, if the interest holder supplies more that 15% of the licensee’s total weekly programming, or has an attributable same-market media interest, whether television, radio, cable or newspaper; (ii) a 5% or greater direct or indirect voting stock interest, including certain interests held in trust, unless the holder is a qualified passive investor in which case the threshold is a 20% or greater voting stock interest; (iii) any equity interest in a limited liability company or a partnership, including a limited partnership, unless properly “insulated” from management activities; and (iv) any position as an officer or director of a licensee or of its direct or indirect parent. Alien Ownership The Communications Act restricts the ability of foreign entities or individuals to own or hold interests in U.S. broadcast licenses. Foreign governments, representatives of foreign governments, non-U.S. citizens, representatives of non-U.S. citizens, and corporations or partnerships organized under the laws of a foreign country (collectively, “aliens”) are prohibited from holding broadcast licenses. Aliens may directly or indirectly own or vote, in the aggregate, up to 20% of the capital stock of a licensee. In addition, a broadcast license may not be granted to or held by any corporation that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by any other corporation 13 Table of Contents more than 25% of whose capital stock is owned or voted by aliens if the FCC finds that the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license. The FCC has interpreted this provision to require an affirmative finding that foreign ownership in excess of 25% would serve the public interest and, in the broadcast context, has made such a finding only in highly limited circumstances. Obscenity, Indecency and Profanity The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. In recent years, the FCC has intensified its enforcement activities with respect to programming it considers indecent and has issued numerous fines to licensees found to have violated the indecency rules. Several appeals of certain of the FCC’s recent indecency enforcement actions and of the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts. In July 2007, the FCC implemented increased forfeiture amounts for indecency violations that were enacted by Congress. The maximum permitted fine for an indecency violation is $325,000 per incident and $3,000,000 for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. Because the FCC may investigate indecency complaints on an ex parte basis, a licensee may not have knowledge of an indecency complaint unless and until the complaint results in the issuance of a formal FCC letter of inquiry or notice of apparent liability for forfeiture. From time to time, our television and radio stations receive letters of inquiry and notices of proposed forfeitures from the FCC alleging that they have broadcast indecent material. We do not believe that broadcasts identified in any currently pending complaints of which we are aware violate the indecency standards. Several appeals of certain of the FCC’s recent indecency enforcement actions and of the FCC’s underlying indecency standards are pending in the federal courts. In July 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued a decision finding that the FCC’s indecency standard was too vague for broadcasters to interpret and therefore inconsistent with the First Amendment. This decision is subject to rehearing and possible appeal to the Supreme Court. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or whether Congress will consider or adopt further legislation in this area. Sponsorship Identification Both the Communications Act and the FCC’s rules generally require that, when payment or other consideration has been received or promised to a broadcast licensee for the airing of program material, at the time of the airing, the station must disclose that fact and identify who paid or promised to provide the consideration. In response to a complaint by a public interest organization, the FCC issued letters of inquiry to several dozen television stations seeking to determine whether their broadcast of “video news releases” (VNRs) violated the sponsorship identification rules by failing to disclose the source and sponsorship of the VNR materials. VNRs are news stories and feature materials produced by government agencies and commercial entities, among others, for use by broadcasters. Two of our television stations received and have responded to the VNR letter of inquiry. We cannot predict the outcome of the FCC’s investigation; however in 2007, the FCC issued a forfeiture notice to one cable company for alleged violations of the sponsorship identification rules based on the use of VNRs. Digital Television As of June 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease broadcasting analog programming and convert to all digital broadcasts. Digital broadcasting permits stations to offer digital channels for a wide variety of services such as high definition video programming, multiple channels of standard definition video programming, audio, data, and other types of communications. Each station is required to provide at least one free over-the-air video program signal that is at least comparable in resolution to the station’s former analog programming transmissions. 14 Table of Contents To the extent a station has “excess” digital capacity (i.e., digital capacity not used to transmit a single free, over-the-air video program), it may elect to use that capacity in any manner consistent with FCC technical requirements, including for additional free program streams, data transmission, interactive or subscription video services, or paging and information services. If a station uses its digital capacity to provide any such “ancillary or supplementary” services on a subscription or otherwise “feeable” basis, it must pay the FCC an annual fee equal to 5% of the gross revenues realized from such services. Relationship With Cable/Satellite A number of provisions of the Communications Act and FCC rules govern aspects of the relationship between broadcast television and video programming distributors such as cable, satellite and telecommunications companies. The rules generally provide certain protections for broadcast stations, for which video program distributors are an important means of distribution and a provider of competing program channels. To ensure that every local television station can be received in its local market without requiring a cable subscriber to switch between cable and off-air signals, the FCC allows every full-power television broadcast station to require that all local cable systems transmit that station’s programming to their subscribers within the station’s market (the so-called “must-carry” rule). Alternatively, a station may elect to forego its must-carry rights and seek a negotiated agreement to establish the terms of its carriage by a local cable system—referred to as “retransmission consent.” A station electing retransmission consent assumes the risk that it will not be able to strike a deal with the video program distributor and will not be carried. A station has the opportunity to elect must-carry or retransmission consent every three years. A station that fails to notify a cable system of its election is presumed to have elected must-carry. Under the must-carry rule, cable operators are required to carry must-carry signals in analog format or, if a cable system is all-digital, to provide equipment to convert must-carry digital signals for viewing on analog television sets. With some exceptions, cable systems are also required to carry television stations’ high definition signals. Cable systems are not required to carry any programming streams other than a station’s primary video programming channel. Consequently, the multicast programming streams provided by several of our television stations are not entitled to mandatory carriage pursuant to the digital must-carry rules. However, because the FCC’s action does not affect digital retransmission consent agreements, we are free to negotiate with cable operators for the carriage of additional programming streams under mutually agreed terms and conditions. A similar must-carry and retransmission consent regime governs carriage of local broadcast channels by direct-to-home satellite television operators. A satellite provider is not required to transmit the signal of any television station to its subscribers in that station’s market. However, if a satellite provider chooses to provide one local station to its subscribers in a market, the provider also must transmit locally every other station in that market that elects must-carry status. As with cable, stations may opt to pursue retransmission consent agreements. A local television station that fails to make any election is deemed to have elected retransmission consent and is not guaranteed carriage. Satellite must-carry election periods occur every three years, consistent with cable must-carry periods. In December 2010, the FCC announced that it planned to launch a rulemaking to review the retransmission consent process and specifically the question of what constitutes good faith negotiation by broadcasters and multichannel video programming distributors. The rulemaking has not yet been released, and we cannot predict what impact, if any, the FCC’s proceeding will have on our negotiations with video programming distributors. Children’s Television Programming Federal legislation and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on television stations during programming designed for children 12 years and younger, and require stations to broadcast three hours per week of educational and informational programming (“E/I programming”) designed for children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also require television stations to broadcast E/I programming on each additional digital multicast program stream transmitted, with the requirement increasing in proportion to the 15 Table of Contents additional hours of free programming offered on multicast channels. These rules also limit the display during children’s programming of internet addresses of websites that contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products. Digital Radio The FCC permits existing AM and FM radio broadcast stations to broadcast digitally in order both to improve sound quality and to provide spectrum for multicast channels and/or enhanced data services to complement the existing programming service. The FCC has authorized AM and FM radio stations to broadcast digital signals using excess spectrum within the same allotted bandwidth used for analog transmissions. In January 2010, the FCC adopted procedures that allow FM radio stations to significantly increase their digital power levels above those originally permitted in order to improve the digital service these stations provide. Employees As of December 26, 2010, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 1,800 full-time and 800 part-time employees compared to approximately 1,900 full-time and 1,000 part-time employees at December 27, 2009. Currently, there are 11 bargaining units representing approximately 600 (or approximately 23%) of our total number of employees. We have entered into various collective bargaining agreements with these bargaining units. Seven of these agreements will expire within the next two years and one agreement expired in 2010. These employees whose agreement has expired continue to work without a contract. In 2010, a bargaining unit dissolved due to a workforce reduction. The majority of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement work at the daily newspaper. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document. Risks Relating to Our Diversified Media Business Decreases in advertising spending, resulting from economic downturn, war, terrorism, advertiser consolidation or other factors, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 75% of our revenue in 2010 was generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising appearing in our newspapers and shoppers and for broadcast on our radio and television stations. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns and some advertisers may go out of business or declare bankruptcy. The merger or consolidation of advertisers also generally leads to a reduced amount of collective advertising spending. A recession or economic downturn, as we experienced in 2009 which somewhat moderated in 2010, as well as a consolidation of advertisers, has had, and in the future could continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our advertising revenue tends to decline in times of national or local crisis because our radio and television stations broadcast more news coverage and sell less advertising time. Terrorist attacks or other wars involving the United States or any other local or national crisis could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some of our printed publications and our radio and television stations generate a large percentage of their advertising revenue from a limited number of sources, including the automotive industry, political and issue advertising and professional sports contracts. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, adverse changes specifically affecting these advertising sources could significantly reduce advertising revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents In addition, our advertising revenue and circulation revenue depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities that we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect those revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores and local economic conditions in general. If the population demographics, prevailing retail environment or local economic conditions of a community served by us were to change adversely, revenue could decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. This risk is especially evident with respect to the metropolitan Milwaukee market, which is served by our daily newspaper, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, one of our television stations, two of our radio stations, a number of our community newspapers and shoppers and several websites, and, collectively, from which we derived approximately 55% of our revenue in 2010. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and during a time of rapid competitive changes, we may lose market share and advertising revenue to competing newspapers, radio and television stations or other types of media competitors, as well as through consolidation of media competitors or changes in advertisers’ media buying strategies. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our newspapers, shoppers, radio stations, television stations and internet sites compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other newspapers, shoppers, radio stations, television stations and internet sites as well as with other media such as magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, direct mail and the evolving on-line advertising space. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do or, even if smaller in size or in terms of financial resources, the ability to create on-line niche products and communities and may respond faster or more aggressively to changing competitive dynamics. This competition has intensified as a result of digital media technologies. While the amount of advertising on our internet sites has continued to increase, we have experienced, and in the future may continue to experience, a decrease in advertising revenues if we are unable to attract advertising to our internet sites in volumes and prices sufficient to offset decreases in advertising in our traditional media products, for which rates are generally higher than for internet advertising. In newspapers and shoppers, our revenue primarily consists of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional and national newspapers, shoppers, magazines, broadcast and cable television, radio, direct mail, Yellow Pages, the internet and other media. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels, while competition for circulation revenue is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality and customer service. On occasion, our businesses compete with each other for regional and local advertising, particularly in the Milwaukee market. Our local and regional competitors in community newspapers and shoppers are typically unique to each market, but we have many competitors for advertising revenue that are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. Circulation revenue and our ability to achieve price increases for our print products are affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in our various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among young people. We may incur increasing costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid circulation. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenue may decline and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our radio and television broadcasting businesses compete for audiences and advertising revenue primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, local and syndicated programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations to our markets, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite or other news providers, or the adoption of 17 Table of Contents competitive formats by existing radio stations could result in lower ratings and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in ratings technology or methodology or metrics used by advertisers or other changes in advertisers’ media buying strategies also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, our operations may be adversely affected by consolidation in the broadcast industry, especially if competing stations in our markets are acquired by competitors who have a greater national scope, can offer a greater variety of national and syndicated programming for listeners and viewers or offer enhanced opportunities for advertisers to reach broader markets. In 2003, the FCC completed a comprehensive review of its ownership rules and adopted revised rules. These rules were stayed in September 2003 and most of the revised rules were remanded to the FCC for additional analysis and justification. In 2008, the FCC issued a Report and Order that modified the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule to permit cross-ownership of one newspaper and one television or radio station in the top twenty markets under certain circumstances. The FCC’s Order is currently on appeal. In 2010, the FCC launched a broad-based inquiry intended to define the scope of its statutorily mandated quadrennial review of the multiple ownership rules. We cannot predict the outcome of any further administrative or judicial proceedings related to the rules. Seasonal and cyclical changes in advertising volume affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations and may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations that we expect to continue to affect our results of operations in future periods. Our first quarter of the year tends to be our weakest quarter because advertising volume is typically at its lowest levels following the holiday season. Our fourth quarter tends to be our strongest quarter primarily because of revenue from holiday season advertising. Our quarterly revenue also varies based on the dynamics of the television broadcast industry. In particular, we experience fluctuations, primarily during our third and fourth quarters, during political voting periods as advertising significantly increases. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2012, our NBC affiliated stations experience increased viewership and revenue during Olympic broadcasts in the first or third quarters of the years in which the Olympics are held. Other factors that affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, changes in newsprint prices, changes in the buying strategies of advertisers and general economic factors. These quarterly fluctuations in revenue and results of operations may cause our stock price to be volatile. We may not be able to acquire radio stations, television stations, newspapers or assets related to our internet-based growth strategy, successfully manage acquired properties, or increase our profits from these operations. Our diversified media business has in the past expanded through acquisitions of radio and television stations and community newspapers and shoppers in selected markets. We intend to pursue continued growth through selected acquisitions, including acquisitions and investments related to our digital-based growth strategy, if we are able to identify strategic acquisition candidates, negotiate definitive agreements on acceptable terms and, as necessary, secure additional financing. Our acquisition strategy includes certain risks. For example: • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if identified, negotiate successfully their acquisition; • we may not be able to secure additional financing necessary to complete acquisitions; • we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations; • we may fail to achieve anticipated financial benefits from acquisitions; 18 Table of Contents • we may encounter regulatory changes or delays or other impediments in connection with proposed transactions; • our acquisition strategy may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of our businesses; • key personnel at acquired companies may leave employment; and • we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than more profitable areas. In addition, we compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully make future acquisitions or what effects those acquisitions may have on our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future cluster multiple radio and television stations in markets that we believe have demographic characteristics and growth potential suitable to further our business objectives. Multiple stations in the same geographic market area could make our results of operations more vulnerable to adverse local economic or demographic changes than they would otherwise be if our stations were located in geographically diverse areas. We anticipate that we would finance potential acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities and/or borrowings, which would reduce our cash available for other purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we would be able to obtain needed financing in the event strategic acquisition opportunities are identified. We may also consider financing acquisitions by issuing additional shares of class A common stock, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership. Another potential source of financing for future acquisitions is to incur more debt, which would lead to increased leverage and debt service requirements. Inherent in any future acquisitions is the risk of transitioning company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisitions. Decreases or slow growth in circulation may adversely affect our revenues. Advertising and circulation revenues are affected by the number of subscribers and single copy purchasers, readership levels and overall audience reach. Our daily newspaper, and the newspaper industry as a whole, is experiencing difficulty maintaining and increasing print circulation and related revenues. This is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media products and sources other than traditional newspapers (often free to users), and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news other than from a newspaper. A prolonged decrease in net paid circulation copies could have a material effect on our revenues, particularly if we are not able to otherwise grow our readership levels and overall audience reach. To maintain our circulation base, we may incur additional costs, and we may not be able to recover these costs through circulation and advertising revenues. Our publishing business may suffer if there is a significant increase in the cost of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint. The basic raw material for newspapers and shoppers is newsprint. Our newsprint consumption related to our publications totaled $16.1 million in 2010, which was 8.8% of our total publishing revenue. We currently purchase our newsprint primarily from a single supplier, with our current pricing agreement ending in December 2011. Our inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future or significant increases in newsprint costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry trends, our publishing operations may not be able to effectively compete. The publishing industry is being challenged by the preferences of today’s “on demand” culture, particularly among younger segments of the population. Some consumers prefer to receive all or a portion of their news in new media formats and from sources other than traditional newspapers. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as the internet, various mobile devices, electronic readers, cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized newspaper readership. The shift in consumer behaviors has the potential to introduce new market competitors or change the means by which traditional newspaper advertisers can most efficiently and effectively reach their target audiences. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new products or services that could compete with these evolving technologies. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry standards, our radio stations may not be able to effectively compete. The broadcast media industry is subject to evolving media technologies and evolving industry standards. Several new technologies are being developed and/or utilized that may compete with our radio stations, including: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications and wireless systems, internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; • satellite digital audio radio service, with enhanced sound quality comparable to that of compact discs and that provide numerous niche formats; • in-band on-channel digital radio, which could improve the quality of existing AM and FM stations, including stations owned by us; • radio stations and internet radio services; • expanded approval of low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets designed to serve small, localized areas; and • enhanced capabilities of cell phones, MP3 players, electronic readers and other mobile devices. These new technologies have the potential to introduce new market competitors or change the means by which radio advertisers can most efficiently and effectively reach their target audiences. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these evolving technologies. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry standards, our television stations may not be able to effectively compete. New technologies could also adversely affect our television stations. Programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, mobile media services, pay-per-view, on-demand programming, the internet and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences. Over the past decade, multichannel video programming distributors have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable television and other technological changes, including the entry by certain of the telecommunications companies into the video services delivery market, has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs may, in the future, increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire programming. The enhanced video and audio capabilities of cell phones, MP3 players, electronic readers and other mobile devices also has the potential to affect television viewership. 20 Table of Contents In addition, video compression techniques now in use with direct broadcast satellites and, increasingly, by cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques, as well as other technological developments, which are applicable to all video delivery systems and enable television broadcasters operating digital signals to offer multiple channels, have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our television broadcast business. If the network programming we broadcast pursuant to network affiliation agreements does not maintain satisfactory viewership levels or if the networks we are affiliated with terminate or do not renew our agreements, our advertising revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The television viewership levels, and ultimately advertising revenue, for each of our stations are materially dependent upon network programming, which is provided pursuant to network affiliation agreements. We cannot assure you that network programming will achieve or maintain satisfactory viewership levels. In particular, because four of our stations (including one of our low-power stations) are parties to affiliation agreements with ABC, three with NBC, two with FOX, two with CW, two with My Network and one with CBS, failures of these networks to provide programming to attract viewers or generate satisfactory ratings may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our network affiliation agreements on as favorable terms or at all. The retransmission agreements which we negotiated with cable, satellite and telecommunications providers for the rights to carry our signals and local programming in their pay television services to consumers are for multiple years with set rate increases. Certain national networks have, and others may try to obtain from us increasing amounts of the retransmission revenue we receive from cable, satellite and telecommunications providers. The termination or non-renewal, or renewal on less favorable terms, of the affiliation agreements could have an adverse effect on us. Changes in the relationship of television networks with their affiliates and other content providers and distribution channels also could affect our results of operation. For example, networks and other content providers recently have begun to sell programming content through new distribution channels and offer viewers the ability to watch programs on-demand, rather than on an established “live” television broadcast schedule. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Television programming is a significant operating cost component in our broadcasting operations. We cannot assure you that we will not be exposed in the future to increased programming costs. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Television networks have been seeking arrangements from their affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs. We cannot predict the nature or scope of any such potential compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. In addition, acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. If our key on-air talent does not remain with us or loses popularity, our advertising revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. We employ or independently contract with a number of on-air personalities and hosts of television and radio programs whose ratings success depends in part on audience loyalty in their respective markets. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our 21 Table of Contents interests in those relationships, we cannot assure you that all or any of these key employees will remain with us over the long term. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty to our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty could reduce ratings and may effect our ability to generate advertising revenue. In addition, our key local management employees are extremely important to our business since we believe that our growth and future success depends on retaining local management with knowledge of the community, its audience and its advertisers. Our inability to attract or retain these skilled personnel could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the professional sports industry or changes in our contractual relationships with local professional sports teams could result in decreased ratings for our Milwaukee radio station and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Milwaukee radio station, WTMJ-AM, currently maintains exclusive radio broadcast rights for the Green Bay Packers, Milwaukee Brewers and Milwaukee Bucks, and arranges a statewide radio network for the broadcast of their games. Our revenue could be adversely affected by changes in the professional sports industry, such as a relocation of one of the local professional sports teams from the Wisconsin market or the potential loss of exclusivity due to league or team initiatives such as pay-per-listen, satellite radio or internet broadcast of games. In addition, we could lose our exclusive broadcast rights during periodic competitive bidding, or suffer damage to the marketplace value of sports advertising due to factors such as a players’ strike, negative publicity or downturn in on-field performance of a team. If cable systems and other video distribution systems do not carry our new digital channels or we do not enter into acceptable agreements with such systems, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. Since our television stations are highly dependent on carriage by cable systems in many of the areas they service, any modifications to rules regarding the obligations of cable systems or satellite providers to carry digital television signals of local broadcast stations could result in some of our television stations or channels not being carried on cable systems or direct to home satellite systems, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We have elected retransmission consent rather than must-carry with cable systems and satellite providers for the majority of our television stations. If we are unable to negotiate retransmission consent agreements in a timely manner or on favorable economic terms, some of our stations may not be carried on certain cable or direct to home satellite systems for a period of time and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may also be unable to negotiate or renegotiate acceptable agreements with other types of video distribution systems, which could also cause our revenue and results of operations to be adversely affected. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our business will be impaired. Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC for a term of eight years and are renewable. Pursuant to FCC rules, our broadcast license for station WTMJ-TV that expired in 2005 remains in effect pending processing by the FCC of its timely filed renewal application. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them with conditions, including renewals for less than a full term. We cannot assure you that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals, even if granted, will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, or renew them with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. 22 Table of Contents Changes relating to consumer information collection and use could adversely affect our ability to collect and use data, which could harm our business. Public concern over methods of information gathering and the use of that information has led to the enactment of legislation in most jurisdictions that restricts the collection and use of consumer information. Our publishing business relies in part on telemarketing sales, which are affected by “do not call” legislation at both the federal and state levels. We also engage in e-mail marketing and the collection and use of consumer information in connection with our publishing and broadcasting businesses and our growing digital efforts. Further legislation, government regulations, industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations or a change in customs relating to the collection, management, aggregation and use of consumer information could materially increase the cost of collecting that data, or limit our ability to provide information to our customers or otherwise utilize telemarketing, e-mail or other electronic marketing, and could adversely effect our results of operations. The FCC may impose sanctions or penalties for violations of rules or regulations. If we or any of our officers, directors or significant shareholders materially violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or are convicted of a felony or are found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition by a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us that could involve the imposition of monetary penalties, the denial of a license renewal application, revocation of a broadcast license or other sanctions. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the broadcast station only after we had exhausted all administrative and judicial review without success. In addition, the FCC has recently emphasized more vigorous enforcement of indecency standards and the prohibition on “payola,” which could result in increased costs associated with the adoption and implementation of stricter compliance procedures at our broadcast facilities or FCC fines. We could experience delays in expanding our business due to antitrust laws. The Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice and the FCC carefully review our proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number and types of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. The Department of Justice has challenged proposed acquisitions of radio stations, particularly in instances where an existing licensee seeks to acquire additional radio stations in the same market. Some of these challenges ultimately resulted in consent decrees requiring, among other things, divestitures of certain stations. In general, the Department of Justice has more closely scrutinized radio station acquisitions that result in local market shares in excess of 40% of radio advertising revenue. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive acquisition opportunity. The filing of petitions or complaints against us or any FCC licensee from which we acquire a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. Regulatory changes may result in increased competition in our radio and television broadcasting business. The radio and television broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Among other things, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and FCC rules and policies require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses, and limit the number and types of broadcast properties in a market in which any person or entity may have an attributable interest. Media ownership restrictions include a variety of limits on local ownership, such as a limit of one television station in medium and smaller markets and two stations in larger markets as long as one station is not a top-four rated station (known as the duopoly rule), a prohibition on ownership of a daily English-language newspaper and a television or radio station in the same market, and limits both on the ownership of radio stations, and on common ownership of 23 Table of Contents radio stations and television stations, in the same local market. In response to a court order and to satisfy its statutory obligation to conduct a quadrennial review of its media ownership rules, the FCC undertook further review of changes to its ownership rules adopted in 2003 (the effectiveness of which had been stayed pending judicial review). In December 2007, the FCC adopted an order relaxing the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule. Requests for reconsideration and judicial review of the FCC’s decision to relax the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule in the top twenty markets have been filed and are pending. We are unable to predict the outcome of this further review. In addition, the 2004 Consolidated Appropriations Act prohibits any person or entity from having an attributable interest in broadcast television stations with an aggregate audience reach exceeding 39% of television households nationally. The increase in the national television viewership cap gave the largest television operators the ability to continue to hold or to acquire additional stations, which may give them a competitive advantage over us, since they have much greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition, the networks’ ability to acquire additional stations could give them “leverage” over their affiliates on issues such as compensation and program clearance, in part because of the risk that a network facing an uncooperative affiliate could acquire a station in the market and terminate its agreement with that affiliate. Congress, the FCC or other federal agencies may in the future consider and adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation, ownership and profitability of our television and radio stations and result in the loss of audience share and advertising revenue for our stations. Examples of such changes include: • proposals to increase regulatory fees or to impose spectrum use or other fees on FCC licenses; • proposals to restrict or prohibit the advertising of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages; • proposals to limit the tax deductibility of advertising expenses by advertisers; • proposals to impose sales tax on advertising expense; • proposals to revise the rules relating to political broadcasting; • proposals to require broadcast stations to operate studios in the communities to which they are licensed, requiring construction of new studios, and to provide staffing on a 24 hour per day basis; and • proposals to require radio broadcasters to pay royalties to musicians and record labels for the performance of music played on the stations. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan may result in a loss of spectrum for our stations and potentially adversely impact our ability to compete. In March 2010, the FCC delivered its national Broadband Plan (the Plan) to Congress. The Plan reviews the nation’s broadband infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives designed to spur broadband deployment and use. In an effort to make available more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the Plan proposes to recapture and reallocate certain spectrum including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and “repacking” of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. If voluntary measures fail to provide the amount of spectrum the FCC considers necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the Plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. In November 2010, the FCC issued rulemakings containing proposals that would enable wireless providers to have equal access to broadcast spectrum that could be made available through spectrum auctions as well as proposals to enable TV stations to voluntary combine operations on a single TV channel. Proposals to permit voluntary spectrum auctions would require Congressional action. At this time we cannot predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the Plan or its effect on our television stations. 24 Table of Contents The performance of our NBC affiliates may suffer due to the joint venture between Comcast Corporation and NBC Universal. In January 2011, the FCC approved a joint venture between Comcast and NBC Universal (NBCU) parent, General Electric Company, and the transaction was consummated. The joint venture, which combines the programming assets owned by each company, could impact our NBC-affiliated television stations. We currently have a network affiliation agreement with NBC Universal for three of our television stations and a retransmission consent agreement with Comcast for distribution of several of our television stations. The merger of the Comcast and NBCU programming assets could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable terms under future network affiliation and cable carriage agreements. In addition, the merged entity could provide popular NBC sports and entertainment programming on additional outlets including co-owned cable channels and the internet. The NBCU Comcast joint venture may affect the economic incentives that currently form the basis of the network/affiliate relationship, and, over time, may result in the evolution of the network/affiliate relationship so that local affiliates become less important to the network. Although the FCC Order approving the joint venture included certain conditions, many of which were contained in private agreements between Comcast and the major-network affiliate associations, to mitigate these concerns, these developments could ultimately affect the profitability of our NBC affiliated stations. The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. We use studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities and the internet to originate and/or distribute our station programs and network programs and commercials to affiliates. We rely on third-party contracts and services to operate our origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecommunication circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us, which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecommunication connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to distribute programming to station audience and/or network affiliates may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other Business Risks Our business has been and may be in the future negatively affected by an impairment charge of goodwill, broadcast licenses or other intangible assets. In 2008, due to deteriorating macro-economic factors, a prolonged adverse change in the business climate, deteriorating market conditions and financial results and a further decline in our stock price, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for goodwill of $245.9 million and a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for broadcast licenses of $129.2 million. In 2009, we determined there were significant adverse changes in projected revenues in the markets where we own television and radio stations and we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for broadcast licenses of $20.1 million. There was no impairment of our broadcast licenses in 2010 and there was no impairment of our goodwill in 2009 or 2010. As of December 26, 2010, we had a total of $114.5 million of goodwill, broadcast licenses and other intangible assets on our balance sheet, representing 26.5% of our total assets. The 2008 and 2009 impairment charges had, and any future non-cash impairment charge of goodwill, broadcast licenses or other intangible assets would have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to utilize deferred tax assets to offset future federal and state taxable income. As of December 26, 2010, we had a total of $58.9 million of deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. We expect to utilize the deferred tax assets to reduce our consolidated federal and state income tax liabilities over a 25 Table of Contents period of time not to exceed 20 years. However, we may not be able to fully utilize the deferred tax assets if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use. In addition, in the future, we may be required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets if we believe we are unable to utilize them, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current economic environment and volatility in US credit markets could affect our financing arrangements. Given the current economic environment, one or more of the lenders in our secured credit facility syndicate could fail or be unable to fund future draws thereunder or take other positions adverse to us. In such an event, our liquidity could be severely constrained with an adverse impact on our ability to operate our businesses. In addition, our ability to meet our credit agreement’s financial covenants may also be affected by events beyond our control, including a further deterioration of current economic and industry conditions, which could negatively affect our earnings. If it is determined we are not in compliance with these financial covenants, the lenders in our credit facility syndicate will be entitled to take certain actions, including acceleration of all amounts due under the facility. If the lenders take such action, we may be forced to amend the terms of the credit agreement, obtain a waiver or find alternative sources of capital. Obtaining new financing arrangements or amending our existing one may result in significantly higher fees and ongoing interest costs as compared to those in our current arrangement. If we are unable to obtain alternative sources of capital, it may be necessary to significantly restructure our business operations or sell assets, or, in the event of a prolonged and extensive economic decline, seek bankruptcy protection. Sustained increases in costs of providing pension benefits may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have a funded, qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers certain employees and an unfunded, non-qualified pension plan for certain employees whose benefits under the qualified pension plan may be restricted due to limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. Two significant elements in determining pension income or pension expense are the discount rate used in projecting benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets. A lower discount rate driven by lower interest rates would increase our pension expense by increasing the calculated value of our liabilities. If our expected return on plan assets is not achieved, as was the case in 2008 because of significant declines in the equity markets, our pension expense and cash contributions to the pension plans would increase. In 2008, as a result of significant equity decline, our qualified pension plan moved from a fully funded to underfunded status. In 2010, the pension plan is still underfunded. If the equity markets do not sufficiently recover or the discount rate does not increase or existing legislative relief is not enough, we will be obligated to make substantial contributions in future years to fund the deficiency. Effective January 1, 2011, the benefit accruals under the qualified defined benefit pension plan and the unfunded, non-qualified pension plan were permanently frozen. A significant increase in our obligation to make contributions to our pension plans would reduce the cash available for working capital, debt reduction and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. Due to our participation in a multiemployer pension plan, we have exposures under that plan that may extend beyond what our obligations would be with respect to our employees. Until our withdrawal in December 2010, we participated in and made periodic contributions to a multiemployer pension plan that covered certain of our union employees. We incurred a pension withdrawal liability in 2010 in connection with the dissolution of that union and the subsequent withdrawal from the multiemployer pension plan. If there is a mass withdrawal from the multiemployer pension plan in 2011 or 2012, we may be subject to additional withdrawal liabilities under applicable law with respect to that plan. 26 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We are dependent upon the efforts of our senior executive officers. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain our personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key personnel, other than with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and these individuals may not continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. We have, however, entered into change in control agreements with certain of our senior executives which provide, within two years after a change in control, severance payments and benefits to the executive if his or her employment is terminated without cause or the executive resigns for good reason. We do not have key man insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. The loss of any senior executive officer could require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our inability to find a replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees. As of December 26, 2010, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 1,800 full-time and 800 part-time employees compared to approximately 1,900 full-time and 1,000 part-time employees at December 27, 2009. Currently, there are 11 bargaining units representing approximately 600 (or approximately 23%) of our total number of employees. We have entered into various collective bargaining agreements with these bargaining units. Seven of these agreements will expire within the next two years and one agreement expired in 2010. These employees whose agreement has expired continue to work without a contract. In 2010, a bargaining unit dissolved due to a workforce reduction. The majority of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement work at the daily newspaper. We cannot assure you the results of negotiations of future collective bargaining agreements or of negotiations related to reopening of collective bargaining agreements in order to reduce our labor costs or achieve other objectives will be negotiated without interruptions in our businesses. We cannot assure you that strikes will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot assure you the impact of future collective bargaining agreements will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 