Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on sales of Xyrem and Luvox CR to generate the cash necessary to operate our business and to meet all of our ongoing financial obligations, and, if we are not able to maintain or increase sales of our products, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We depend on sales of Xyrem and Luvox CR to generate the cash necessary to operate our business and to meet all of our ongoing financial obligations, and our future plans assume that sales of our products will increase. Sales and prescriptions of Xyrem increased in 2008 and 2009; however, cataplexy and excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy are orphan conditions, which means that a relatively limited number of people suffer from those conditions. We cannot assure you that the number of patients using Xyrem will continue to increase, or that, if there is growth in the number of patients, the rate of growth will not be lower than in prior years. We significantly increased the price of Xyrem during 2009, including an approximately 20% increase in October 2009. We cannot assure you that these or future price increases will not negatively affect Xyrem sales volumes in the future. In July 2009, our orphan drug exclusivity for Xyrem for cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy expired and we cannot assure you that a generic equivalent will not be introduced for that indication. If sales of Luvox CR do not increase as expected, they may not cover the payments due to Solvay under our license agreement for Luvox CR plus the cost to manufacture, market and sell the product and to fulfill our Phase IV clinical trial commitment to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. If prescriptions and revenue from sales of Xyrem and Luvox CR do not increase as expected, we may be required to reduce our operating expenses, decrease our efforts in support of our products or seek to raise additional funds, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our only product candidate currently in late-stage development is JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia, for which we submitted a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA in December 2009. Although we believe our completed Phase III pivotal clinical trials have shown JZP-6 to be safe and effective for the treatment of fibromyalgia, the FDA may not approve JZP-6 for marketing or may approve it with restrictions on the label, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We are currently seeking approval of JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Our development program for JZP-6 includes two completed Phase III pivotal clinical trials and a long-term safety trial that is expected to be completed in mid-2010. Although we received statistically significant positive results from both of our Phase III pivotal clinical trials and believe the results show JZP-6 to be safe and effective for the treatment of fibromyalgia, we do not know if the FDA will agree with our interpretation of the results of these trials or whether the FDA and other regulatory authorities will approve JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Although JZP-6 has the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Xyrem, which has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, this does not assure approval by the FDA, or any other regulatory authorities, of this active pharmaceutical ingredient for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Lyrica (pregabalin), marketed by Pfizer, Cymbalta (duloxetine), marketed by Eli Lilly, and Savella (milnacipran), marketed by Forest Laboratories, were approved by the FDA in June 2007, June 2008, and January 2009, respectively, for the treatment of fibromyalgia. With treatments for fibromyalgia already approved, the FDA may be less willing to approve JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. None of these products has been approved by the EMA for the treatment of fibromyalgia. A failure to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval of JZP-6 for fibromyalgia patients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Even if the FDA approves JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia, the FDA will likely require us to have a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy program, or REMS, which may be similar to the one we use for Xyrem. Under the current Xyrem REMS, Xyrem is distributed through a single central pharmacy. The central pharmacy maintains physician and patient registries, and the product may not be stocked in retail pharmacies. Each physician and patient receives materials concerning the risks and benefits of the product before the physician can prescribe, or a patient can receive, Xyrem. Whenever a prescription is received by the central pharmacy, the central pharmacy verifies the prescription and obtains additional information by contacting the patient. The central pharmacy also speaks with the patient before it ships any Xyrem to the patient. The central pharmacy ships the product directly to the patient by a courier service, and the patient or his/her designee signs for the package. The initial shipment may only be for a one-month supply, and physicians may only prescribe up to six months of supply of Xyrem at one time. 25 Table of Contents The Xyrem REMS is labor intensive, complex and expensive to operate. Since Xyrem is currently prescribed for a relatively small number of patients, the Xyrem REMS does not prevent us from effectively supplying Xyrem to narcolepsy patients. However, significantly more patients are diagnosed with fibromyalgia, and if the same or a similar REMS is required for JZP-6, scale-up of the REMS could make it difficult for us to timely supply all of the patients who may be prescribed JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. This could make JZP-6 less attractive to physicians and patients than other products that are currently, or that in the future may be, approved for the treatment of fibromyalgia, which could limit potential sales of JZP-6. We depend upon UCB Pharma Limited, or UCB, to market and promote Xyrem outside the United States, and we are dependent upon our collaboration with UCB for the development and potential commercialization of JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia in major markets outside of the United States. We have exclusively licensed to UCB the rights to market and promote Xyrem in 54 countries outside of the United States. If UCB does not obtain regulatory approvals for and launch Xyrem in its licensed countries in the time frames we expect, or at all, our revenues would be adversely affected. In addition, under the terms of our collaboration with UCB, we granted UCB the exclusive right to commercialize JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia in the same territories in which UCB has the right to market and promote Xyrem for patients with narcolepsy. There are currently no approved fibromyalgia treatments in the European Union. In October 2008, April 2009 and July 2009 panels of European regulators recommended against approving Cymbalta, Lyrica and Savella, respectively, as treatments for fibromyalgia. We cannot be sure that the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, will approve any treatment, or JZP-6 in particular, for fibromyalgia. UCB has the right to terminate our collaboration on 12-months’ notice (or less in certain circumstances), and UCB may terminate its rights to JZP-6 for the fibromyalgia indication on six-months’ notice at any time prior to the receipt of marketing approval of JZP-6 for fibromyalgia in the European Union. If UCB terminates our collaboration or terminates its rights to JZP-6 for the fibromyalgia indication, we would need to find another party or parties to commercialize Xyrem and JZP-6 in UCB’s territories. We may be unable to do this on acceptable terms, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We depend on one central pharmacy distributor for Xyrem sales in the United States, and the loss of that distributor or its failure to distribute Xyrem effectively would adversely affect sales of Xyrem. As a condition of approval of Xyrem, the FDA mandated that we maintain a risk management program for Xyrem under which all Xyrem that we sell in the United States must be shipped directly to patients through a single central pharmacy. The process under which patients receive Xyrem under the Xyrem REMS is cumbersome. While we have an agreement with the central pharmacy for Xyrem, Express Scripts Specialty Distribution Services, or Express Scripts, if the central pharmacy does not fulfill its contractual obligations to us, or refuses or fails to adequately serve patients, shipments of Xyrem, and our sales, would be adversely affected. Changing central pharmacy distributors could take a significant amount of time. In addition, sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem, is regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, as a controlled substance. Any new central pharmacy would need to be registered with the DEA and would also need to develop the particular processes, procedures and activities necessary to distribute Xyrem under the REMS approved by the FDA. If we change central pharmacies, new contracts might also be required with government and other insurers who pay for Xyrem. Transitioning to a new central pharmacy could result in product shortages, which would adversely affect sales of Xyrem in the United States, and/or result in additional costs and expenses for us, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 26 Table of Contents Our supplier of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and our product manufacturer for Xyrem must obtain DEA quotas in order to supply us with Xyrem, JZP-6 and sodium oxybate, and these quotas may not be sufficient to satisfy our clinical and commercial needs. The DEA limits the quantity of certain Schedule I controlled substances that may be produced in the United States in any given calendar year through a quota system. Because the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Xyrem and JZP-6, sodium oxybate, is a Schedule I controlled substance, our supplier of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and our product manufacturers must obtain DEA quotas in order to supply us with sodium oxybate, Xyrem and JZP-6. Since the DEA typically grants quotas on an annual basis and requires a detailed submission and justification for each request, obtaining a DEA quota is a difficult and time consuming process. If our commercial or clinical requirements for sodium oxybate, Xyrem or JZP-6 exceed our supplier’s and contract manufacturer’s DEA quotas, our supplier and contract manufacturer would need quota increases from the DEA, which could be difficult and time consuming to obtain and might not ultimately be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The DEA has issued a quota for 2010 that is substantially the same as that issued for 2009 but that is less than the quota that we believe we will need to provide commercial supplies of Xyrem, support our development needs and prepare for the potential commercial launch of JZP-6. We are in discussions with the DEA concerning the 2010 quota; however, since the 2010 quota was issued in January 2010, we will have to request an increase in the aggregate 2010 quota, and our suppliers will need to request additional quota, which could delay the potential commercial launch of JZP-6. In addition, Lonza, Inc., or Lonza, is our sole supplier of sodium oxybate and recently publicly announced that it is closing its U.S. facility where it manufactures sodium oxybate. We may need to build significant additional supplies of sodium oxybate before Lonza closes its plant, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient and timely DEA quota to manufacture additional inventory. If we arrange for a new supplier, that supplier will also need quota from the DEA, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely obtain sufficient quota for a new supplier. In the future and in cooperation with our manufacturing partners, we will continue to seek increased quotas to satisfy our clinical and commercial needs. We will need to negotiate with the DEA any time we need additional quota, and these negotiations may be protracted and may not provide us with as much quota as we believe is needed on a timely basis, or at all, and without sufficient and timely DEA quotas, there could be shortages of Xyrem, as sodium oxybate or, if approved, JZP-6 for the marketplace or for use in our clinical studies, or both. We depend on single source suppliers and manufacturers for each of our products and product candidates. The loss of any of these suppliers or manufacturers, or delays or problems in the supply or manufacture of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We do not have, and do not intend to establish in the near term, our own manufacturing or packaging capability for our products or product candidates, or their active pharmaceutical ingredients. Accordingly, we have entered into manufacturing and supply agreements with single source suppliers and manufacturers for our commercialized products and product candidates. The deterioration in worldwide economic conditions and the disruption to the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide may materially and adversely impact the financial position of our single source suppliers and manufacturers. If our suppliers and contract manufacturers are unable to obtain the necessary capital to operate their respective businesses or for other reasons, our suppliers and contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our products or product candidates without interruption, or may not comply with their obligations to us under our supply and manufacturing arrangements. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and their failure to supply us could result in a shortage of our products or product candidates. The availability of our products for commercial sale depends upon our ability to procure the ingredients, packaging materials and finished products we need. If one of our suppliers or product manufacturers fails or refuses to supply us for any reason, it would take a significant amount of time and expense to qualify a new supplier or manufacturer. The loss of one of our suppliers or product manufacturers could require us to obtain regulatory clearance in the form of a “prior approval supplement” and to incur validation and other costs associated with the transfer of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or product manufacturing process. We believe that it could take as long as two years to qualify a new supplier or manufacturer, and we may not be able to obtain active pharmaceutical ingredients, packaging materials or finished products from new suppliers or manufacturers on acceptable terms and at reasonable prices, or at all. Should we lose either an active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier or a product manufacturer, we could run out of salable product to meet market demands or investigational product for use in clinical trials while we wait for FDA approval of a new active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier or product manufacturer. For Xyrem, JZP-6 or sodium oxybate, the new supplier or manufacturer would also need to be registered with the DEA and obtain a DEA quota. In addition, the FDA must approve suppliers of the active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products, as well as suppliers of finished products. The qualification of new suppliers and manufacturers could potentially delay the manufacture of our products and product candidates and result in shortages in the marketplace or for our clinical trials, or both, particularly since we do not have secondary sources of supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or backup manufacturers for our products and product candidates. If there are delays in qualifying the new manufacturer or the new manufacturer is unable to obtain a sufficient quota from the DEA, there could be a shortage of Xyrem, sodium oxybate or, if approved, JZP-6 for the marketplace or for use in our clinical studies, or both. 27 Table of Contents Lonza is our sole supplier of sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem and, through Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Solvay, our sole supplier of fluvoxamine maleate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Luvox CR. Lonza recently publicly announced that it is closing its U.S. facility where it manufactures sodium oxybate and fluvoxamine maleate for us. Although Lonza is contractually obligated to meet our supply needs through December 2011 and has indicated a willingness to work with us to avoid an interruption in supply, we will likely need to secure one or more new manufacturers for the supply of sodium oxybate and Solvay may need to secure one or more new manufacturers for the supply of fluvoxamine maleate. We may need to build significant additional supplies of sodium oxybate before Lonza closes its plant, and, even if we are able to obtain sufficient and timely DEA quota to manufacture additional inventory, we cannot assure you that Lonza will have the capacity to timely meet our requirements. Any new manufacturer of sodium oxybate would need to be registered with the DEA and obtain a DEA quota, and any new manufacturers of sodium oxybate and fluvoxamine maleate will need to be approved by the FDA. We cannot assure you that we and any new suppliers or manufacturers will be able to complete all of the necessary validation and other activities prior to the time at which Lonza ceases manufacturing sodium oxybate and fluvoxamine maleate for us or we run out of inventory. Any failure to obtain sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of sodium oxybate and fluvoxamine maleate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Elan Pharma International Limited, or Elan, has the right and obligation to manufacture the worldwide commercial requirements of Luvox CR. In June 2001, Solvay’s NDA for Luvox CR was withdrawn due to manufacturing difficulties. We cannot assure you that Elan will be able to continue to supply in a timely manner or at all our ongoing commercial needs of Luvox CR. Any failure of Elan to supply necessary quantities of Luvox CR could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Failure by our third party manufacturers to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect their ability to supply products to us. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements. In complying with cGMP requirements, our suppliers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that our products and product candidates meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. DEA regulations also govern facilities where controlled substances such as sodium oxybate are manufactured. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA and other regulatory authorities, including state authorities. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements subjects the suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with the ingredients or finished products we need. Due to FDA-mandated dating requirements, the limited market size for our approved products and DEA quotas relating to sodium oxybate, Xyrem and JZP-6, we are subject to complex manufacturing logistics and minimum order quantities that could result in excess inventory as determined under our accounting policy, unsalable inventory as a result of product expiring prior to use, and competition with others for manufacturing services when needed or expected. We have adopted a production planning program to assess and manage manufacturing logistics among the vendors supplying our requirements of active pharmaceutical ingredient, drug product and packaging; however, unexpected market requirements or problems with vendors’ facilities, among other things, could result in shortages of one or more of our products for the marketplace or product candidates for use in our clinical studies, or both. Any delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products by any of our suppliers could result in our inability to meet the commercial demand for our products or our needs for use in clinical trials, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, under our agreement with UCB, we are responsible for the supply of Xyrem and, if approved, JZP-6 to UCB. Our failure to meet our contractual obligations to supply UCB with adequate quantities of Xyrem and JZP-6 would result in lost revenues to us and, if material, could result in termination of our agreements by UCB. 28 Table of Contents The commercial success of our products depends upon attaining market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community. Even if our product candidates are approved for sale by the appropriate regulatory authorities, physicians may not prescribe our products, in which case we would not generate the revenues we anticipate. Market acceptance of any of our products by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community depends on: • the clinical indications for which a product is approved, including any potential additional restrictions placed upon the product in connection with its approval; • prevalence of the disease or condition for which the product is approved and the severity of side effects; • acceptance by physicians and patients of each product as a safe and effective treatment; • perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including generic products; • the extent to which the product is approved for inclusion on formularies of hospitals and managed care organizations; and • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties. A failure to prove that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials would require us to discontinue their development, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Significant additional research and development, financial resources and additional personnel will be required to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our product candidates and to develop them into commercially viable products. As a condition to regulatory approval, each product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials to demonstrate to a statistically significant degree that the product candidate is safe and effective. The clinical trials for a product candidate can cost between $40 million and $100 million, and potentially even more. If a product candidate fails at any stage of development, we will not be able to commercialize it and we will not receive any return on our investment from that product candidate. Clinical testing can take many years to complete, and failure can occur any time during the clinical trial process. In addition, the results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed successfully through initial clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials. The completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or halted for many reasons, including: • delays in patient enrollment, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence or continue a clinical trial; • our inability, or the inability of our partners, to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient to complete our clinical trials; • delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; • risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product candidate is effective; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment commences, resulting in incomplete data; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • safety issues, including adverse events associated with product candidates; • the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to adverse side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons; • governmental or regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policies and guidelines; • varying interpretation of data by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies; and • insufficient funds to complete the trials. 29 Table of Contents In addition, our product candidates are subject to competition for clinical study sites and patients from other therapies under development that may delay the enrollment in or initiation of our clinical trials. Many of these companies have far greater financial and human resources than we do. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require us to conduct unanticipated additional clinical trials, which could result in additional expense and delays in bringing our product candidates to market. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their legal and regulatory obligations, as well as their contractual obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We design the clinical trials for our product candidates, but rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. Although we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The FDA enforces good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we, our contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the FDA’s cGMP regulations. Our failure, or the failure of our contract manufacturers, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat or redesign clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. We could be materially adversely affected if we or our products are subject to negative publicity. For example, sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem and JZP-6, is a derivative of gamma hydroxybutyrate, or GHB, which has been a drug of abuse and may not be sold legally in the United States. If physicians and patients perceive Xyrem and JZP-6 to be the same as or similar to GHB, or if adverse effects become associated with our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected. From time to time, there is negative publicity about illicit GHB and its effects, including with respect to illegal use, overdoses, serious injury and death. Because sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem and JZP-6, is a derivative of GHB, Xyrem sometimes also receives (and it can be expected that JZP-6, if approved, could sometimes receive) negative mention in publicity relating to GHB. For the same reason, patients, physicians and regulators may view Xyrem and JZP-6 as the same as or similar to illicit GHB. In addition, there are regulators and some law enforcement agencies that oppose the prescription and use of Xyrem generally (and may oppose the prescription and use of JZP-6) because of its connection to GHB. Xyrem’s label includes information about adverse events from GHB, and we anticipate that if JZP-6 is approved, its label will include similar information. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to consumers. Because of our dependence upon patient and physician perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the use or misuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 30 Table of Contents The investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York concerning the sales and marketing of Xyrem creates additional compliance-related operating costs and could result in additional fines, penalties or other adverse consequences. In April 2006, we and our subsidiary, Orphan Medical, received subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice, acting through the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, in connection with the sale and marketing of Xyrem. We and Orphan Medical have settled this matter with the United States, acting through the Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York and other federal agencies, including the Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Orphan Medical pled guilty to one felony count of introducing a misbranded drug into interstate commerce. A total of approximately $20 million in civil and criminal payments is required to be paid in connection with this matter, of which $1 million was paid in July 2007, $2 million was paid in January 2008, $2.5 million was paid in October 2009, and $3 million was paid in January 2010; the remaining amount will be due over the next two years. While we were not prosecuted, as part of the settlement, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. That agreement requires us to maintain a comprehensive compliance program, and we will have additional ongoing compliance-related operating costs related to this compliance program and the corporate integrity agreement. In the event of an uncured material breach or deliberate violation, as the case may be, of the corporate integrity agreement or the other definitive settlement agreements we entered into, we could be excluded from participation in Federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution. In addition, there is no assurance that we will not be subject to future investigations. Many pharmaceutical companies have announced government investigations of their sales and marketing practices for many of their products. Even with compliance training and a company culture of compliance, our current or future practices may nonetheless become the subject of an investigation. A number of laws, often referred to as “whistleblower” statutes, provide for financial rewards to employees and others for bringing to the attention of the government sales and marketing practices that the government views as illegal or fraudulent. The costs of investigating any claims, responding to subpoenas of investigators, and any resulting fines, can be significant and could divert the attention of our management from operating our business. Xyrem cannot be advertised in the same manner as competing products, which could limit sales. The FDA has required that Xyrem’s label include a boxed warning regarding the risk of abuse. A boxed warning is the strongest type of warning that the FDA can require for a drug product and warns prescribers that the drug carries a significant risk of serious or even life-threatening adverse effects. A boxed warning also means, among other things, that the product cannot be advertised through reminder ads, ads which mention the pharmaceutical brand name but not the indication or medical condition it treats. Provigil (modafinil) and Nuvigil (armodafinil), the only other products approved by the FDA specifically for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy, do not have a boxed warning and can be advertised with reminder ads. In addition, Xyrem’s FDA approval under the FDA’s Subpart H regulations requires that all of the promotional materials for Xyrem be provided to the FDA for review at least 30 days prior to the intended time of first use. Unlike Xyrem, Provigil and Nuvigil were not approved under the FDA’s Subpart H regulations and are not subject to the pre-review requirements. Accordingly, promotional materials for Provigil and Nuvigil are not subject to the same delays that we experience with respect to new promotional materials for Xyrem. Because JZP-6 contains the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Xyrem, we anticipate that the label for JZP-6, if approved by the FDA, will also include a boxed warning. One of the products already approved by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia is not, and future competing products may not be, subject to this restriction, and the boxed warning may negatively affect potential JZP-6 sales if competing products can be advertised directly to consumers. We face substantial competition from companies with greater resources than we have. With respect to all of our existing and future products, we may compete with companies selling or working to develop products that may be more effective, safer or less costly than our products. The markets for which we are developing products are competitive and include generic and branded products, some of which are marketed by major pharmaceutical companies that have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing and selling approved products than we do. While Xyrem is the only product approved by the FDA for the treatment of both excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, cataplexy is often treated with tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, although none of these compounds has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of cataplexy. Other treatments for excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy consist primarily of stimulants and wakefulness promoting agents, including Provigil and Nuvigil, the only other FDA-approved products for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy. 31 Table of Contents Luvox CR, an SSRI, is approved in the United States for the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder and social anxiety disorder. SSRIs are the standard treatment for anxiety disorders, including obsessive compulsive disorder and social anxiety disorder. Six other branded products are currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder, and most of these products have generic equivalents. Generic products are generally sold at significantly lower prices than non-generic branded products, tending to both take market share away from branded products and put downward pricing pressure on branded products. Four other products are currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of social anxiety disorder, and each of these products has generic equivalents. We are seeking FDA approval of JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. The FDA has approved Lyrica, marketed by Pfizer, Cymbalta, marketed by Eli Lilly, and Savella, marketed by Forest Laboratories, for the treatment of fibromyalgia. In clinical practice, a variety of other drugs are often prescribed to address individual symptoms of fibromyalgia, including antidepressants, pain medications, muscle relaxants, hypnotics and anticonvulsants, even though those products are not specifically approved by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia. These treatments, as well as other product candidates that may be approved for the treatment of fibromyalgia may be better accepted by physicians and patients. Thus, even if we are able to obtain and maintain FDA approval of JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia, JZP-6 may not result in significant commercial revenues for us. JZP-6 contains the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Xyrem. While we have not established the price we will charge for JZP-6 if it is approved by the FDA and launched, Xyrem is substantially more expensive than the products currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia. If the price we charge for JZP-6 is substantially higher than the price of other products that are now or that may in the future be approved for the treatment of fibromyalgia, we cannot assure you that JZP-6 will be included on formularies, or at what level it might be included on formularies, or that there will not be managed care, government or insurance restrictions on its use. Any such restrictions could negatively affect the commercial potential of JZP-6. Smaller or earlier stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with other large, established companies. Our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize generic or branded products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our products. Many of our competitors have far greater financial resources and a larger number of personnel to market and sell their products than we do. Our competitors may obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we may and may market their products more effectively than we do. If we are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our products are preferable to other therapies, we may not generate meaningful revenues from the sales of our products. If generic products that compete with any of our products are approved, sales of our products may be adversely affected. Our products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents if there is no proprietary protection for some of our products or because our protection has expired or is not sufficiently broad. The FDA had previously granted Xyrem orphan drug exclusivity in the United States for the treatment of cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, but this exclusivity expired in July 2009, and other companies could possibly introduce generic equivalents of Xyrem for the cataplexy indication if they do not infringe our existing patents covering Xyrem. Although the FDA has granted orphan drug exclusivity for Xyrem until November 2012 for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy, prescriptions for Xyrem for the excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy indication, or if approved by the FDA, JZP-6, could possibly be filled with generic equivalents that are granted approval for the treatment of cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, even if the patient is diagnosed with excessive daytime sleepiness or fibromyalgia. Although Xyrem, Luvox CR and JZP-6 are covered by patents that we own or license, it is possible that other companies could manufacture generic equivalents of Xyrem, JZP-6 and Luvox CR in ways that are not covered by the claims of our patents. In addition, patent protection is not available for the active pharmaceutical ingredient in most of our products and product candidates, including Xyrem, Luvox CR and JZP-6. In August 2009, we received a Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice from Actavis Elizabeth, LLC, or Actavis, advising that Actavis has filed an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Luvox CR. In September 2009, we received an additional Paragraph IV Patent Certification notice from Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Anchen, advising that Anchen has filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic version of Luvox CR. We and Elan have filed lawsuits in response to the Paragraph IV certifications. We cannot assure you that these lawsuits will prevent the introduction of generic products for any particular length of time, or at all. 32 Table of Contents After the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the prescriptions written for a product generally may be filled with the generic version at the pharmacy, resulting in a loss in sales of the branded product, including for indications for which the generic version has not been approved for marketing by the FDA. Generic competition often results in decreases in the prices at which branded products can be sold. In addition, legislation enacted in the United States allows for and, in a few instances in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician, mandates the dispensing of generic products rather than branded products where a generic equivalent is available. Generic competition for our products earlier than expected, including as a result of FDA approval of ANDAs for generic versions of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We may not be able to successfully acquire, in-license or develop additional products or product candidates to grow our business. In order to grow our business, we will need to acquire, in-license or develop additional products and product candidates that we believe have significant commercial potential. Any growth through acquisitions or in-licensing will depend upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition or in-license products and product candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions, and any growth through development will depend upon our obtaining product candidates, our ability to develop those product candidates and the availability of funding to complete the development, obtain regulatory approval of and commercialize these product candidates. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify products or product candidates suitable for potential acquisition, in-licensing or development, or we may not have the financial resources necessary to pursue opportunities. Other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, compete with us for the right to acquire and in-license such products or product candidates. We currently have a relatively small sales organization compared with most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products. If our specialty sales force and sales organization is not appropriately sized to adequately promote our current and potential future products, the commercial opportunity for our products may be diminished. We have a relatively small number of sales representatives compared with the number of sales representatives of most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products. Each of our sales representatives is responsible for a territory of significant size. Our potential future commercial products, including JZP-6, may require expansion of our sales force and sales support organization, and we will need to commit significant additional funds, management and other resources to the growth of our sales organization before the commercial launch of those product candidates. We may not be able to achieve the necessary growth in a cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on our investment, and we may not have the financial resources to achieve the necessary growth in a timely manner or at all. We also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. Turnover in our sales force could also negatively affect sales of our products. If we elect to rely on third parties to sell our products in the United States, we may receive less revenue or incur more expense than if we sold our products directly. In addition, we may have little or no control over the sales efforts of those third parties. If we are unable to appropriately size our sales force or collaborate with third parties to sell our products, our ability to generate revenues would be adversely affected. If we fail to retain key personnel, or to retain our executive management team, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our products. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to retain and motivate highly qualified personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our executive management team and other key personnel. The loss of services of any one or more members of our executive management team or other key personnel could delay or prevent the successful completion of some of our key activities. We do not carry “key person” insurance. Any member of our executive management team and any other key employees may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. For example, in early 2009, our then chief executive officer left the company. Competition for qualified personnel in the life sciences industry has historically been intense. If we need to hire additional personnel to expand our development, clinical and commercial activities, or to support those activities, we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our products and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage our personnel resources effectively, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 33 Table of Contents Our offices are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities, which could adversely affect our operations. Our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, near known earthquake fault zones and are therefore vulnerable to damage from earthquake. In October 1989, a major earthquake in our area caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other disasters such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If a significant disaster occurs, our ability to continue our operations could be seriously impaired and we may not have adequate insurance to cover any resulting losses. Any significant unrecoverable losses could seriously impair our operations and financial conditions. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, their use and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties depends on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, or have trade secrets that cover these activities. The patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Even if we are able to obtain patents covering our products and product candidates, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. In the case of Luvox CR, for example, Actavis’ Paragraph IV Certification alleges that Elan’s U.S. Patent No. 7,465,462, listed in the Orange Book, is invalid on the basis that the inventions claimed therein were obvious; Anchen’s Paragraph IV Certification alleges that Elan’s U.S. Patent No. 7,465,462, listed in the Orange Book, will not be infringed by Anchen’s manufacture, use or sale of the generic product for which the ANDA was submitted and that the patent is invalid on the basis that the inventions claimed therein were obvious. The expiration date for the patent at issue is May 10, 2020. The existence of a patent will not necessarily prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products or protect us from claims of third parties that our products infringe their issued patents, which may require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar products that do not infringe our patents, or manufacture products in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that do not respect our patents. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents, our licensed patents or in third party patents. The degree of future protection to be afforded by our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • others may be able to make products that are similar to our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements; • we or our licensors or partners might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or the pending patent applications or issued patents of our licensors or partners; • we or our licensors or partners might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative products without infringing our intellectual property rights; • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or partners may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary products that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. 34 Table of Contents We also may rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information, our employees, consultants, advisors and partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors, and we may not have adequate remedies for such disclosures. If our employees, consultants, advisors and partners develop inventions or processes independently, or jointly with us, that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership or proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our inventions or trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside of the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information to which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. While the ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to contractual limitations, these contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication, or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our innovations and other confidential information, then our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized. Moreover, a dispute may arise with our research and development collaborators over the ownership of rights to jointly developed intellectual property. Such disputes, if not successfully resolved, could lead to a loss of rights and possibly prevent us from pursuing certain new products or product candidates. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or commercialize, our products. Our ability, and that of our partners, to commercialize any approved products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We have filed multiple U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts, and may file additional U.S. and foreign patent applications related thereto. There can be no assurance that any issued patents we own or control will provide sufficient protection to conduct our business as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted. Moreover, in part because of prior research performed and patent applications submitted in the same manner or similar fields, there can be no assurance that any patents will issue from the patent applications owned by us, or that we will remain free from infringement claims by third parties. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from pursuing the inventions claimed in our patents or in or our licensed patents or those of our partners, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that the other party’s activities do not infringe our rights to these patents or that it is in the public interest to permit the infringing activity. In October 2009, we and Elan filed lawsuits in response to the Paragraph IV certifications that we received from Actavis and Anchen. We cannot assure you that these lawsuits will be successful in stopping the infringement of our related patents, that the litigation will be cost effective, or that the litigation will have a satisfactory result for us. A third party may claim that we or our manufacturing or commercialization partners are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our products. Patent infringement lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of management and development personnel. There is a risk that a court could decide that we or our partners are infringing third party patent rights. In the event that we or our partners are found to infringe any valid claim of a patent held by a third party, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use and sale of our products that infringe the patent rights of others through a court-imposed sanction such as an injunction; • expend significant resources to redesign our products so they do not infringe others’ patent rights, which may not be possible; 35 Table of Contents • discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The pharmaceutical and life sciences industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents in the United States. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for inventions covered by our licensors’ or our issued patents or pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first inventors. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering subject matter similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patents or applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such subject matter. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, and regulations differ from country to country. Approval in the United States, or in any jurisdiction, does not ensure approval in other jurisdictions. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and we may be unable to obtain approval for our product candidates. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval from the FDA, generally of an NDA. An NDA must contain, among other things, data to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for its intended uses and that it will be manufactured to appropriate quality standards. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, untitled letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize them and recoup our research and development costs. In 2008, the FDA announced that, in light of staffing issues, it has given its managers discretion to miss Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, deadlines for completing reviews of NDAs. Although the FDA has since publicly expressed a recommitment to meeting PDUFA deadlines, it remains unclear whether and to what extent the FDA will adhere to PDUFA deadlines in the future. If the FDA were to miss a PDUFA deadline for JZP-6 or one of our other product candidates, delaying the approval and launch, the delay could have a material adverse effect on our business. 36 Table of Contents We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products. We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our products are, and any of our product candidates that may be approved by the FDA will be, subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we receive regulatory approvals to sell our products, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our products, or impose requirements for burdensome post-approval study commitments. The terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the commercial potential of the product. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with any of our products in the United States or overseas or at our contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on our products, our contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our products, implement changes to, or obtain re-approvals of, our contract manufacturers’ facilities, or withdraw the product from the market. In addition, we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. The FDA and other governmental authorities also actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the DEA, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we commercialize our products. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, promotion, marketing, and pricing to government purchasers and government health care programs. Our manufacturing partners are subject to many of the same requirements, which include obtaining sufficient quota from the DEA each year to manufacture sodium oxybate, Xyrem and JZP-6. These statutes and regulations include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting identified common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. The Federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. 37 Table of Contents Many pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company’s products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug payment rates under government health care programs. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the company’s marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Pharmaceutical and other health care companies have also been prosecuted on other legal theories of Medicare and Medicaid fraud. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a company’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states. Other states prohibit providing meals to prescribers or other marketing related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, California, Nevada, and Massachusetts require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. Currently, several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If we or any of our partners fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or our partners’ ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. The minimum amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law at 15.1% of the average manufacturing price of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between the average manufacturing price and the best price we make available to any non-federal customer. The rebate also includes an additional amount if price increases exceed the rate of inflation. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of our current average manufacturing price and best prices for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for prior quarters was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected average manufacturing price or best price for that quarter. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if we are found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Service’s pharmaceutical pricing program requiring us to sell our products at prices lower than we otherwise might be able to charge. The Public Health Service pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebates to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor patients and children. 38 Table of Contents Reimbursement may not be available for our products, which could diminish our sales or affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both U.S. and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products successfully, and to attract strategic partners for our products, depends in significant part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third party payors, including, in the United States, governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations and private health insurers. Third party payors decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. In some cases, for example, third party payors try to encourage the use of less expensive generic products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Even with studies, our products may be considered less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than existing products, and third party payors may not provide coverage and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. We cannot predict actions third party payors may take, or whether they will limit the coverage and level of reimbursement for our products or refuse to provide any coverage at all. For example, because Luvox CR is competing in a market with both branded and generic products, reimbursement by government and private payors may be more challenging than for new chemical entities. We cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts, or the lack of reimbursement, will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to effectively commercialize our products. In recent years, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes in and proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. These changes and proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for some medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control and regulations changing the rebates we are required to provide. For example, a final rule published by the Department of Defense, or DoD, in March 2009 under the National Defense Authorization Act of 2008, established a program under which DoD requires rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers on all prescriptions of covered prescription drugs filled under the TRICARE retail pharmacy program from January 28, 2008 forward, unless DoD agrees to a waiver or compromise of amounts due. Additionally, under the final rule, to remain eligible for inclusion on the DoD Uniform Formulary, a pharmaceutical manufacturer must enter into a pricing agreement under which it agrees to pay rebates to DoD on TRICARE retail pharmacy utilization on a prospective basis, and, in compliance with this rule, we entered into a pricing agreement with DoD in July 2009. These legislative and regulatory changes, including our entering into the pricing agreement with DoD, could impact our ability to maximize revenues in the Federal marketplace. Some of the proposals that have been made for additional legislative and regulatory changes include expanding the 340B drug pricing program to allow additional types of health care providers to purchase drugs at significant discounts and to require those discounts on inpatient drugs as well, increasing the minimum Medicaid drug rebate percentage, expanding Medicaid rebate liability to drugs purchased under Medicaid managed care contracts, increasing the Medicaid rebate on new formulations of existing drugs, and requiring Medicaid rebates to be paid on drugs provided to certain enrollees in the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and our business will be harmed. Congress is currently considering enacting healthcare reform, which, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on the prices of our products and the pharmaceutical industry as a whole, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. 39 Table of Contents Prescription drug importation from Canada and other countries could increase pricing pressure on our products and could decrease our revenues and profit margins. Under current U.S. law, there is a general prohibition on imports of unapproved drug products. The FDA has published internal guidance that sets forth the agency’s enforcement priorities for imported drugs. Under this policy, the FDA allows its personnel to use their discretion in permitting entry into the United States of personal use quantities of FDA-regulated products in personal baggage and mail when the product does not present an unreasonable risk to the user. Thus, individuals may import prescription drugs that are unavailable in the United States from Canada and other countries for their personal use under specified circumstances. Other imports, although illegal under U.S. law, also enter the country as a result of the resource constraints and enforcement priorities of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Services. In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 permits pharmacists and wholesalers to import prescription drugs into the United States from Canada under specified circumstances. These additional import provisions will not take effect until the Secretary of Health and Human Services makes a required certification regarding the safety and cost savings of imported drugs and the FDA has promulgated regulations setting forth parameters for importation. These conditions have not been met to date and the law has therefore not taken effect. However, legislative proposals have been introduced to remove these conditions and implement changes to the current import laws, or to create other changes that would allow foreign versions of our products priced at lower levels than in the United States to be imported or reimported to the United States from Canada, Europe and other countries. In addition, there have been indications that the current presidential administration is considering changing certain rules to make it easier to import drugs from other countries, and we cannot predict what, if any changes will happen. If these provisions or changes in the rules take effect, the volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase significantly and our products could face competition from lower priced imports. Even if these provisions do not take effect and alter current law, the volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase due to a variety of factors, including the further spread of internet pharmacies and actions by a number of state and local governments to facilitate Canadian and other imports. These imports may harm our business. Product liability and product recalls could harm our business. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient’s condition, serious injury or impairments or even death. This could result in product liability claims and/or recalls of one or more of our products. For example, studies and publications suggest that SSRIs, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Luvox CR and its immediate release formulation Luvox, may increase the risk of suicidal behavior in adults and adolescents. In addition, the current SSRI products used to treat obsessive compulsive disorder and social anxiety disorder, particularly those formulated for immediate release, all have significant adverse side effects. Side effects associated with SSRIs include sexual dysfunction, adverse drug interaction and risk of hypertension. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by groups seeking to represent a class. While we have not had to defend against any product liability claims to date, as sales of our products increase, we believe it is likely product liability claims will be made against us. We cannot predict the frequency, outcome or cost to defend any such claims. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Partly as a result of product liability lawsuits related to pharmaceutical products, product liability and other types of insurance have become more difficult and costly for pharmaceutical companies to obtain. Our product liability insurance may not cover all of the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, defending a product liability lawsuit is expensive and can divert the attention of key employees from operating our business. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of our suppliers, government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. Any recall of our products could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time and by adversely affecting our reputation. 40 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition We have a substantial amount of secured debt, which matures in less than two years and may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2009, our total consolidated indebtedness was $128.9 million, $119.5 million of which constituted secured indebtedness under our senior secured notes due in June 2011, or the Senior Notes, and $9.4 million of which constituted secured indebtedness under our line of credit with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB. Pursuant to our secured line of credit with SVB, we currently may borrow up to the lesser of 75% of eligible accounts receivable or $15 million. Our substantial debt, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have important consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, in the event of a default under the agreement governing the Senior Notes, or the Senior Note Agreement, the holders of our Senior Notes could accelerate, or demand immediate repayment of, all or a portion of our indebtedness under the Senior Notes. Any such acceleration would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We did not timely make the quarterly interest payments on the Senior Notes due on December 31, 2008, March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009. In addition, we failed to comply with a covenant to establish and maintain a minimum cash balance in an account pledged to the collateral agent for the Senior Notes, which became applicable in May 2009 because our annualized aggregate net product sales did not exceed $100 million for the three months ended March 31, 2009. The failure to make the quarterly interest payments when due and the failure to establish the required restricted cash balance account in May 2009 constituted events of default under the Senior Note Agreement, which then permitted the holders of more than 50% in principal amount of the Senior Notes to accelerate payment of the Senior Notes. In July 2009, we paid the overdue interest and, because our annualized aggregate net product sales exceeded $100 million for the three months ended June 30, 2009, we were no longer required to maintain the minimum cash balance. In November 2009, we amended the Senior Note Agreement to provide, among other things, for amortization of a portion of the principal amount of the Senior Notes. In connection with that amendment, the holders of the Senior Notes have waived the prior events of default described above. However, our failure to comply with the terms of the Senior Note Agreement on an ongoing basis could result in the holders of our Senior Notes attempting to accelerate our indebtedness under the Senior Notes. We do not currently expect to be able to repay the Senior Notes in full at maturity without new financing or additional cash resources. If we do not have sufficient funds to pay all remaining principal on our Senior Notes when it is due in June 2011, service our indebtedness under the Senior Notes, or to restrict cash if required under the Senior Note Agreement, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or obtain additional equity capital, including on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive, none of which we can assure you that we would be able to do in a timely manner or at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. In addition, our ability to refinance any amounts that may become accelerated under the Senior Notes or to secure future waivers from the holders of the Senior Notes with respect to compliance with the Senior Note Agreement covenants may be adversely affected by our prior defaults under the Senior Notes. The holders of the Senior Notes currently have a first priority security interest in all of our assets other than inventory and accounts receivable, on which SVB has a lien and first priority security interest. 41 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses, and, if we are to grow our business in the future, we will need to commit substantial resources, which could result in future losses. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception in 2003, and we may incur net losses in the future. To grow our business in the future, we will need to commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming product development and clinical trials of our product candidates and significant funds to our commercial operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the amount of sales and other revenues from our commercial products, including selling prices for products that we may begin selling and price increases for our current products; • market acceptance of and the number of prescriptions written for our products; • selling and marketing costs associated with Xyrem and Luvox CR in the United States; • the timing of potential receipt of FDA approval of JZP-6 and its potential commercialization; • revenues from current and potential future development and/or commercial collaboration partners, in particular our current partnership with UCB; • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of our preclinical studies, clinical trials, including our Phase IV clinical trial commitment to the FDA for Luvox CR, and other research and development activities; • the number and characteristics of product candidates that we pursue; • the cost and timing of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and products, including the cost and timing of procuring new arrangements for the supply of sodium oxybate and fluvoxamine maleate; • the cost and timing of obtaining regulatory approval; • payments of milestones to third parties; • increased expenses associated with our current employees and new employees hired to support our continued growth; • the cost of investigations, litigation and/or settlements related to regulatory activities; • the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the extent to which we acquire, in-license or invest in new businesses, products or product candidates. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Our operations have generated negative cash flows, and, if our cash flow estimates are incorrect, we may be required to secure additional funding, significantly scale back our operations, significantly reduce our headcount, and/or discontinue many of our activities which could negatively affect our business and prospects. Over the next twelve months, we plan to fund our operations and meet all of our obligations as they become due through our existing cash balances, cash generated from operations and borrowings under our revolving bank line of credit. The adequacy of our cash resources to meet our plan during the next twelve months depends on many assumptions, including primarily our assumptions with respect to continued growth in our product sales and continued access to our revolving bank line of credit, which currently expires in May 2010. Our assumptions may prove to be wrong, and we could exhaust our available cash resources. Beyond the next twelve months, we do not expect our cash resources to be sufficient to cover all of our operating requirements as well as launch expenses for our JZP-6 product candidate if approved by the FDA, the cost of our Luvox CR Phase IV clinical trial commitments, any significant additional costs related to the development of our product candidates and repayment of our Senior Notes at maturity. In order to fund these additional activities and requirements, we will need to do one or more of: raise additional funds, partner or license one or more of our product candidates or draw down funds under our committed equity financing facility. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional funds when or if needed, we would be required to further reduce operating expenses. Furthermore, any additional funds we may raise could be on terms that are not favorable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. We cannot predict with certainty the level of our product sales. If product sales do not meet our expectations and/or we do not raise additional funds, we will need to further reduce our expenditures, perhaps significantly, to preserve our cash. The cost-cutting measures we may take may not be sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements, and they may negatively affect our business and prospects. 42 Table of Contents The terms of our Senior Notes could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions. The terms of our Senior Notes currently contain, and any future indebtedness may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. The terms of the Senior Notes include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional debt; • dispose of certain assets; • repurchase our capital stock or make distributions to our stockholders; • impair our lenders’ security interests in our assets; and • voluntarily prepay our debt prior to the repayment of the Senior Notes. In addition, the terms of the Senior Notes require us to maintain restricted cash balances under certain circumstances. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due could be limited or lost entirely, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations if we generate taxable income, if we do not generate taxable income in a timely manner or if an “ownership change” pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code is triggered. We have significant net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs. Our ability to use our NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income before the expiration dates of the NOLs, and we cannot predict with certainty when, if ever, we will be able to generate future taxable income. In addition, even if we generate taxable income, realization of our NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due could be restricted by annual limitations on use of NOLs triggered by an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. An “ownership change” may occur if, during a three-year period, the percentage ownership of our company by our 5% shareholders increases by 50% or more. If we generate taxable income, the loss of some or all of our NOLs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Effective July 7, 2009, we entered into an NOL preservation lock-up agreement with most of our significant stockholders that restricts transferability of shares of our common stock by the stockholders who entered into the agreement until June 2011, unless terminated earlier under certain circumstances, in order to minimize the risk that we will undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code prior to that time. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code is an extremely complex provision with respect to which there are many uncertainties. Although the NOL preservation lock-up agreement and 5% shareholder limitation are intended to minimize the risk of such an “ownership change,” we cannot assure you that such an ownership change will not occur. In addition, we have not requested a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regarding whether we have effectively preserved our NOLs, and, therefore, we have not established whether the IRS agrees with us that our NOLs have been effectively preserved for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and the value of your investment could decline significantly. Investors who purchase our common stock may not be able to sell their shares at or above the purchase price. Our common stock has historically had a very low average trading volume, and our stockholders may not be able to sell any or all of their holdings quickly or at all. The price of our stock has also fluctuated significantly since the beginning of 2009 and we cannot predict if it will continue to do so. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 43 Table of Contents The following factors, in addition to other risks described herein, may have a significant effect on our common stock market price: • the success of Xyrem and Luvox CR in the United States; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical industry, the credit and financial markets or the United States and worldwide economy in general; • the failure or delay by the DEA in providing sufficient quotas for sodium oxybate, Xyrem or JZP-6; • the success of our development efforts and clinical trials; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates, including JZP-6, or specific label indications for their use, or delays in the FDA review process; • the review, evaluation and recommendations of any FDA advisory committee regarding the potential approval of JZP-6; • our ability to successfully market JZP-6 in the United States if approved by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia, or any delays in the potential commercial launch of JZP-6; • our ability to obtain adequate clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and products from our single source suppliers and manufacturers, and to make timely new arrangements for the supply of sodium oxybate and fluvoxamine maleate; • the ability of Elan to provide us with sufficient commercial supply of Luvox CR; • our financial situation, including our ability or inability to raise additional capital when needed and the terms on which we raise it; • actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results, including as a result of fluctuating demand for our commercial products as a result of purchases by wholesalers in connection with product launches, stockpiling or inventory drawdowns by our customers, or otherwise; • hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our common stock; • changes in the market prices for our products; • the success of our efforts to acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates; • introductions and announcements of new products by us, our commercialization partners, or our competitors, and the timing of these introductions or announcements; • the filing of, and thereafter the possible FDA approval of, ANDAs for generic forms of Xyrem, Luvox CR and, if approved by the FDA, JZP-6; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements of product innovations by us, our partners or our competitors; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our products, clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing terms; • developments concerning our collaborations, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply and our commercialization partners; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our products; • actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally; • actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • changes in the market valuation of similar companies; • trading volume of our common stock; and • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders. 44 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of February 26, 2010, we had 31,269,350 shares of common stock outstanding, all of which shares were eligible for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to the volume limitations and manner of sale and other requirements under Rule 144 and the restrictions under our NOL preservation lock-up agreement. As of February 26, 2010, the holders of up to approximately 18,312,159 shares of common stock, based on shares outstanding as of that date, including 785,728 shares underlying outstanding warrants, were entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of such shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, under an amended and restated investor rights agreement that we entered into with these holders. In addition, upon exercise of outstanding options by our executive officers, our executive officers will be entitled to rights under the amended and restated investor rights agreement with respect to registration of the shares of common stock acquired on exercise. If such holders, by exercising their registration rights, sell a large number of shares, they could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. If we file a registration statement and include shares held by these holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, these sales may impair our ability to raise capital. We also entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we filed a registration statement covering the resale of the 562,192 shares underlying the warrants that we issued in connection with the issuance of the Senior Notes. In addition, we have filed registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register the shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, and intend to file additional registration statements on Form S-8 to register the shares automatically added each year to the share reserves under these plans. We entered into a committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, on May 7, 2008 with Kingsbridge Capital Limited, or Kingsbridge, that was amended in November 2009. The perceived risk of dilution from sales of our common stock to or by Kingsbridge in connection with the CEFF may cause holders of our common stock to sell their shares, or it may encourage short selling by market participants, which could contribute to a decline in our stock price. The registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the CEFF, as amended, requires that we use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the registration statement we filed in connection with the CEFF, and any additional registration statements that we file with the SEC to cover the resale of the shares issuable under the CEFF, remain effective for up to one year following the termination of the CEFF. We have not drawn down funds and have not issued shares of our common stock under the CEFF with Kingsbridge. Our ability to draw down funds and sell shares under the CEFF requires that the registration statement we filed in connection with the CEFF continue to be effective. In addition, the registration statement that we filed in connection with the CEFF registers approximately 76% of the 4,922,064 total shares of our common stock issuable under the CEFF, or 3,726,727 shares, and our ability to access the CEFF to sell the 1,195,337 remaining shares issuable under the CEFF is subject to our ability to prepare and file one or more additional registration statements registering the resale of these shares, which we may not file until the later of 60 days after Kingsbridge and its affiliates have resold substantially all of the common stock registered for resale under the registration statement that we have filed in connection with the CEFF, or six months after the effective date of such registration statement. These subsequent registration statements may be subject to review and comment by the Staff of the SEC, and will require the consent of our independent registered public accounting firm. Therefore, the timing of effectiveness of these subsequent registration statements cannot be assured. The effectiveness of these subsequent registration statements is a condition precedent to our ability to sell the shares of common stock subject to these subsequent registration statements to Kingsbridge under the CEFF. In addition, we will not be able to sell shares under the CEFF unless certain other conditions are met, including a minimum average price of our common stock of at least $2.50 per share. Because our ability to draw down amounts under the CEFF is subject to a number of conditions, there is no guarantee that we will be able to draw down any portion or all of the $75 million available to us under the CEFF. In addition, although the CEFF provides for our ability to draw down amounts of up to $75 million, the maximum number of shares of common stock that we can issue to Kingsbridge under the CEFF is limited to 4,922,064 shares. As a result, since we will issue shares of our common stock at a discount of up to 9.5% from the then average price of our common stock if we draw down amounts under the CEFF, even if we are able to issue the maximum number of shares provided for under the CEFF to Kingsbridge, the aggregate proceeds to us could be substantially less than $75 million. Once Kingsbridge acquires shares in connection with a drawdown there are no restrictions on its ability to sell those shares or engage in other transactions that could put downward pressure on the price of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of an investor rights agreement dated July 7, 2009 we entered into in connection with a private placement completed on July 7, 2009, we filed a registration statement under the Securities Act registering the resale of the 1,895,734 shares of common stock we issued to the investors pursuant to a securities purchase agreement we entered into with the investors on July 6, 2009, as well as the 947,867 shares of common stock underlying the warrants we issued to the investors pursuant to the securities purchase agreement. In addition, if we propose to register any of our securities under the Securities Act, either for our own account or for the account of others, the investors are entitled to notice of the registration and are entitled to include, at our expense, their shares of common stock in the registration and any related underwriting, provided, among other conditions, that the underwriters may limit the number of shares to be included in the registration. 45 Table of Contents The CEFF may result in dilution to our stockholders. Pursuant to the CEFF, Kingsbridge committed to purchase, subject to certain conditions, up to the lesser of $75 million of our common stock or 4,922,064 shares of our common stock over a three-year period beginning in December 2009. If we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of any blackout payment as described below, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 9.5% from the average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. In addition, we are entitled in certain circumstances to deliver a “blackout” notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the registration statements that we have filed or may in the future file with the SEC registering for resale the shares of common stock to be issued under the CEFF and the shares underlying the warrant we issued to Kingsbridge. If we deliver a blackout notice during a certain number of trading days following a settlement of a draw down, then we must make a blackout payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares of our common stock in lieu of this payment. Our executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates, own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of February 26, 2010, our executive officers and directors, together with the stockholders with which our executive officers and directors are affiliated or associated, beneficially owned approximately 65.5% of our capital stock, of which approximately 4.9% was beneficially owned by our executive officers. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates or associates, are able to determine the composition of our board of directors, retain the voting power to approve all matters requiring stockholder approval, including mergers and other business combinations, and continue to have significant influence over our operations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors or management. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC have imposed various requirements on public companies including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Our management and other personnel must continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. For example, we were required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and to allow our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 46 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on trading prices for our common stock, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for a change in the composition of our board of directors or management to occur, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • dividing our board of directors into three classes; • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; • eliminating cumulative voting rights and therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of our common stock to elect all of the directors standing for election, if they should so choose; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless, among other exceptions, such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Further, because some corporate takeovers occur through an acquirer’s purchase, in the public market or otherwise, of sufficient stock to give it control of a company, the NOL preservation lock-up agreement, which restricts the transferability of our securities, could have the effect of delaying or discouraging such a takeover of us. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings in the development and growth of our business and in the payment of our obligations. In addition, the agreements governing our debt restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 