Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this prospectus in evaluating our company and our business. We have never achieved profitability on an annual basis. We have never achieved profitability on an annual basis. We incurred net losses of $605,000 in fiscal 2004, $17,000 in fiscal 2005, and $18.9 million in fiscal 2006. We cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or maintain profitability. At June 30, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $19.7 million. We derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of HDTVs, particularly LCD HDTVs, and any decline in demand for these products could severely harm our ability to generate revenue. We derive substantially all of our revenue from HDTVs, particularly LCD HDTVs. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for these products, whether as a result of market demand, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, budget constraints of potential customers, or other factors. If our revenue derived from these products were to decline significantly, our business and operating results would be adversely affected. We will be required to attain and maintain profitability through a combination of increased revenue or lower expenses or to raise additional funds. To support our operations, we will be required to attain and maintain profitability through a combination of increased revenue or lower expenses or to raise additional funds. There can be no assurance that we will be able to become profitable or to raise additional funds on satisfactory terms. We had approximately $7.4 million of cash at June 30, 2006, and we are continuing to incur losses. To remain competitive, we must fund our receivables and inventory and continue to make significant investments in product design and development, marketing, research and development, equipment, and facilities. As a result of the costs and expenses related to these expenditures, our failure to increase sufficiently our net sales to offset these costs and expenses would adversely affect our operating results. Rapid sales increases are also requiring substantial increases in working capital to fund our inventory and receivables. 13 Table of Contents We will need to obtain additional equity or debt financing to provide the funds required to expand our business. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our operating results may suffer. Debt financing increases expenses and must be repaid regardless of operating results. Equity financing could result in additional dilution to existing stockholders. Our revenue depends on sales by various retailers and distributors. Our revenue depends on our sales through various leading national consumer electronics retailers, such as Comp USA, Inc., Circuit City, Office Depot, K-Mart, and Fry’s Electronics, Inc.; regional consumer electronics retailers, such as ABC Appliance, Inc. and J&R Electronics, Inc.; online/television retailers, such as Amazon.com, Inc. and Buy.com; and high-end audio/video distributors, such as D&H Distributor Co. and BDI Laguna, Inc. These sales channels involve a number of special risks, including the following: • our ability to secure and maintain favorable relationships with retailers and distributors; • our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users; • our retailers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; • our retailers and distributors may terminate their relationships with us at any time; and • our retailers and distributors market and distribute competing products. We had two customers that accounted for $32.5 million, or 16.8%, and $25.3 million, or 13.1%, respectively, of our net sales in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Competing companies and technologies could reduce the demand for our products. We compete with a number of the world’s leading electronics manufacturers, including JVC, LG Electronics, Panasonic, Phillips, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, Thompson, and Toshiba. Each of these and certain of our other competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and other resources than we possess. Our competitors could introduce products with superior features and functionality at lower prices than our products, and could also bundle existing or new products with other more established products in order to compete with us. Our competitors could also gain market share by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with other competitors. Finally, we may face additional sources of competition in the future because new distribution methods offered by the Internet and electronic commerce have removed many of the barriers to entry historically faced by start-up companies in the consumer electronics industry. Any of the foregoing effects could cause our revenues to decline, which would harm our financial position and results of operations. We are also subject to competition from competing technologies, such as CRT, high-temperature polysilicon, plasma, and digital micromirror technologies, as well as other emerging technologies or technologies that may be introduced in the future. The success of competing technologies could substantially reduce the demand for our products. We rely on contract manufacturers and assemblers for a portion of our HDTV production requirements, and any interruptions of these arrangements could disrupt our ability to fill customer orders. We outsource to various contract manufacturers and assemblers the production requirements for our HDTVs. Taiwan Kolin Co. Ltd. is our principal contract manufacturer and our sole source of the electronic components and subassemblies of our LCD HDTV products. The loss of our relationships with our contract manufacturers or assemblers, particularly Kolin, or their inability to conduct their manufacturing and assembly services for us as anticipated in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness could adversely affect our ability to fill customer orders in accordance with required delivery, quality, and performance requirements. If this were to occur, the resulting decline in revenue and revenue potential would harm our business. Securing new contract manufacturers and assemblers is time-consuming and might result in unforeseen manufacturing, supply, and operational problems. 14 Table of Contents Our contract manufacturers and assemblers must maintain satisfactory delivery schedules and their inability to do so could increase our costs, disrupt our supply chain, and result in our inability to deliver our HDTV products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our contract manufacturers and assemblers must maintain high levels of productivity and satisfactory delivery schedules. We do not have long-term arrangements with any of our contract manufacturers or assemblers that guarantee production capacity, prices, lead times, or delivery schedules. Our contract manufacturers and assemblers serve many other customers, a number of which have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, our contract manufacturers and assemblers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate services for us on short notice. Any such problems could result in our inability to deliver our products in a timely manner and adversely affect our operating results. Shortages of components and materials may delay or reduce our sales and increase our costs. Our inability or the inability of our contract manufacturers and assemblers to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials necessary for the production of our products could result in delayed sales or lost orders, increased inventory, and underutilized manufacturing capacity. For example, we experienced production delays when our former supplier of light engines experienced quality and delivery issues. Many of the materials used in the production of our HDTV and microdisplay products are available only from a limited number of foreign suppliers. As a result, we are subject to increased costs, supply interruptions, and difficulties in obtaining materials. Our OEM customers also may encounter difficulties or increased costs in obtaining from others the materials necessary to produce their products into which our LCoS microdisplays are incorporated. We depend on AU Optronics, Chi Mei Optoelectronic, LG Phillips, and Samsung for LCD panels and on Kolin for the electronic components and subassemblies for our LCD HDTV products. We depend on Shanghai-based Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, for the fabrication of silicon wafers; Taiwan-based United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, for ASICs; Pixelworks, Silicon Optics, ATI, and Zoran for video processing integrated circuits; Toppan for screens; and various Asian suppliers for printed circuit board assembly and remote controls for our HDTV products. We also depend on UMC for the fabrication of silicon wafers and ASICs for our near-to-eye microdisplay products. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these suppliers. As a result, none of them is obligated to supply us for any specific period, in any specific quantity, or at any specific price, except as provided in purchase orders from time to time. The termination of our arrangements with any of these suppliers, or their inability or unwillingness to provide us with the necessary amount or quality of supplies on a timely basis, would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and ship our products until alternative sources of supply could be arranged. We may not be able to secure alternative arrangements. Materials and components for some of our major products may not be available in sufficient quantities to satisfy our needs because of shortages of these materials and components. Any supply interruption or shortages may result in lost sales opportunities. We place orders for components, determine production, and plan inventory in advance based on our forecast of consumer demand, which is highly volatile and difficult to predict. We may experience a shortage of LCD panels, which may result in our inability to meet demand for our LCD televisions, or a surplus of LCD panels that may result in the recording of losses should LCD panel prices decline. We consume a large volume of parts and components for our products, and market fluctuations may cause a shortage of parts and components and may affect our production or the cost of goods sold. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by supply or inventory shortages or inventory adjustments that, as a result of efforts to reduce inventory by temporarily halting production or by reducing the price of goods, will lead to an increase in the ratio of cost of sales to sales. We write down the value of our inventory when components or products have become obsolete, when inventory exceeds the amount expected to be used, or when the value of the inventory is otherwise recorded at a higher value than net realizable value. Such inventory adjustments can have a material adverse effect on our operating income and profitability. Our business depends on new products and technologies. We operate in rapidly changing industries. Technological advances, the introduction of new products, and new design and manufacturing techniques could adversely affect our business unless we are able to adapt to the changing 15 Table of Contents conditions. As a result, we will be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to the following: • designing and developing new products and product enhancements that appeal to consumers; • meeting the expectations of our retail and OEM customers in terms of product design, product cost, performance, and service; • expanding our manufacturing resources; • continuing research and development activities on existing and potential products; • engaging additional engineering and other technical personnel; • purchasing advanced design, production, and test equipment; and • maintaining and enhancing our technological capabilities. We may be unable to recover any expenditures we make relating to one or more new products or technologies that ultimately prove to be unsuccessful for any reason. In addition, any investments or acquisitions made to enhance our products, sales channels, or technologies may prove to be unsuccessful. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to provide new products that compare favorably on the basis of time to introduction, cost, and performance with the products of competitive suppliers and evolving technologies. Our success in attracting new customers and developing new business depends on various factors, including the following: • innovative development of new products; • efficient, timely, and cost-effective manufacture of our products; • the acceptance of our technology; and • utilization of advances in technology. Our future success depends on our ability to address the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing, acquiring, and introducing new products and product updates on a timely basis. We must also extend the operation of our products to new formats and keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards. We intend to commit substantial resources to developing new products, product features, and technological advances in the HDTV market. This market is relatively new, and industry standards for the HDTV market are evolving and changing. If the HDTV market does not develop as anticipated, or if demand for our products and services in this market does not materialize or occurs more slowly than we expect, we will have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient revenue, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We must protect our intellectual property and could be subject to infringement claims by others. We believe that our success depends in part on protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We seek to protect certain aspects of our technology under trade secret laws, which afford only limited protection. We face risks associated with our intellectual property, including the following: • intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights; • third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patents issued to us; • rights granted under patents issued to us may not provide competitive advantages to us; 16 Table of Contents • unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights; • others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to us; and • effective protection of intellectual property rights may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries in which we operate. We may not be able to obtain effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection in every country in which our products are produced or sold. We may find it necessary to take legal action in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of infringement and such action may be unsuccessful. In addition, we may not be able to obtain a favorable outcome in any intellectual property litigation. Third parties could claim that we are infringing their patents or other intellectual property rights. In the event that a third party alleges that we are infringing its rights, we may not be able to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms from the third party, if at all, or the third party may commence litigation against us. Litigation can be very expensive and can distract our management time and attention, which could adversely affect our business. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to a variety of risks. Our operations in foreign countries expose us to a variety of risks. Most of our contract manufacturers and assemblers are located abroad, and we and our contract manufacturers and assemblers purchase certain materials from international sources. Purchasing supplies and manufacturing and selling products internationally expose us to various economic, political, and other risks, including the following: • difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating an international operation; • the burdens and costs of compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements as well as changes in those laws and requirements; • imposition of governmental controls, including trade and employment restrictions and restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and difficulties in hedging foreign currency transaction exposures; • economic instability, such as higher interest rates and inflation, which could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain financing for consumer electronic products or which could make our products more expensive in those countries; • employment and severance issues, including possible employee turnover or labor unrest; • overlap of tax issues; • tariffs and duties; • potential loss of proprietary information as a result of piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; • limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenue from international operations if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; • longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Asia and in other periods in other countries; • costs and delays associated with developing our products in multiple languages; and 17 Table of Contents • political unrest, war, or terrorism in areas in which we do business. Changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, increased duties, changes in the current tariff structures, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations, restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds, limitations on imports or exports, or the expropriation of private enterprises could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell products in foreign markets and to purchase materials or equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, U.S. trade policies, such as “most favored nation” status and trade preferences for certain Asian nations, could affect the attractiveness of our products to our U.S. customers. While we transact business predominantly in U.S. dollars and bill and collect most of our sales in U.S. dollars, we occasionally collect a portion of our revenue in non-U.S. currencies. In the future, customers may make payments in non-U.S. currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not freely traded. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results. The cyclical nature of the consumer electronics industry may cause substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results. The consumer electronics industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, intense competition, and production overcapacity. In addition, the consumer electronics industry is cyclical in nature. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results, at least in part because of general industry conditions or events occurring in the general economy. Our operating results may have significant periodic and seasonal fluctuations. In addition to the variability resulting from the short-term nature of the commitments of our customers, other factors may contribute to significant periodic and seasonal quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations. These factors include the following: • effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes; • changes in cost and availability of labor and components; • the timing and volume of orders relative to our capacity; • market acceptance of our products; • product introductions or enhancements by us and our competitors; • evolution in the life cycles of products; • timing of expenditures in anticipation of future orders; • product mix; • pricing and availability of competitive products; • changes or anticipated changes in economic conditions; • the cancellation or deferral of product purchases as a result of weak or uncertain economic and industry conditions or the anticipation of new products or product updates by us or our competitors; • changes in the competitive landscape due to mergers, acquisitions, or strategic alliances that could allow our competitors to gain market share; 18 Table of Contents • the unpredictability of the timing and magnitude of our sales through direct sales channels and indirect sales channels; • the seasonal nature of our sales; • changes in our pricing and distribution terms or those of our competitors; and • the possibility that our business will be adversely affected as a result of the threat of terrorism or military actions taken by the United States or its allies. You should not rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. Our operating expense levels are based, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. If we have a shortfall in revenue or orders in any given quarter, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses quickly in response. Therefore, any significant shortfall in revenue or orders could have an immediate adverse effect on our operating results for that quarter. In addition, we may experience high operating expenses, and our operating results may fall below the expectations of investors, if we fail to manage our business effectively. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or unforeseen failures, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers, or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our products are complex and may contain undetected errors or experience unforeseen failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. These errors could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, and cause significant customer relations and business reputation problems. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. Defects could also lead to liability for defective products as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. We also may agree to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. A successful product liability claim could require us to make significant damage payments. We are subject to lengthy development periods and product acceptance cycles. We sell our microdisplay products to OEMs, which then incorporate them into the products they sell. OEMs make the determination during their product development programs whether to incorporate our microdisplay products or pursue other alternatives. This may require us to make significant investments of time and capital well before our OEM customers introduce their products incorporating our products and before we can be sure that we will generate any significant sales to our OEM customers or even recover our investment. During an OEM customer’s entire product development process, we face the risk that our products will fail to meet our OEM customer’s technical, performance, or cost requirements or will be replaced by a competing product or alternative technology. Even if we offer products that are satisfactory to an OEM customer, the customer may delay or terminate its product development efforts. The occurrence of any of these events would adversely affect our revenue. The lengthy development period also means that it is difficult to immediately replace an unexpected loss of existing business. Our LCoS microdisplay products may not achieve commercial success or widespread market acceptance. A key element of our current business involves the ongoing commercialization of our LCoS microdisplay technology. Our LCoS products may not achieve customer or widespread market acceptance. Some or all of our LCoS products may not achieve commercial success as a result of technological problems, competitive cost issues, yield problems, and other factors. Even when we successfully introduce a new LCoS product designed for OEM customers, our OEM customers may determine not to introduce or may terminate products utilizing our products for a variety of reasons, including the following: • difficulties with other suppliers of components for the products; • superior technologies developed by our competitors; • price considerations; • lack of anticipated or actual market demand for the products; and • unfavorable comparisons with products introduced by others. Various target markets for our LCoS microdisplays are uncertain, may be slow to develop, or could use competing technologies. Various target markets for our LCoS microdisplays, including LCoS HDTVs, LCoS home theaters, and near-to-eye microdisplays, are uncertain, may be slow to develop, or could utilize competing technologies, especially high-temperature polysilicon and digital micromirror devices. Many manufacturers have well-established positions in these markets. LCoS HDTVs have only recently become available to consumers, and widespread market acceptance is uncertain. Penetrating this market will require us to offer an improved value, higher performance proposition to existing technology. In addition, the commercial success of the near-to-eye microdisplay market is uncertain. 19 Table of Contents Gaining acceptance in these markets may prove difficult because of the radically different approach of microdisplays to the presentation of information. We must provide customers with lower cost, higher performance microdisplays for their products in these markets. The failure of any of our target markets to develop, or our failure to penetrate these markets, would impede our sales growth. Even if our products successfully meet their price and performance goals, our retailer customers may not achieve success in selling our LCoS HDTVs and our OEM customers may not achieve commercial success in selling their products that incorporate our microdisplay products. We do not sell our LCoS microdisplays to end users and depend on the market acceptance of the products of our customers. We do not sell our LCoS microdisplay products to end users. Instead, we design and develop LCoS microdisplay products that our OEM customers incorporate into their products. As a result, our success depends on the ability of our OEM customers to sell their products. Any significant slowdown in the demand for our customers’ products would adversely affect our business. Because our success in the LCoS microdisplay business depends on the widespread market acceptance of our customers’ products, we must establish relationships for our microdisplay products with OEMs in industries that have significant growth potential. Our failure to establish relationships with OEMs in those high-growth markets would reduce our revenue potential. Our dependence on the success of the products of our OEM customers exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: • our ability to supply products for customers on a timely and cost-effective basis; • our success in maintaining customer satisfaction with our products; • our ability to match our manufacturing capacity with customer demand and to maintain satisfactory delivery schedules; • customer order patterns, changes in order mix, and the level and timing of orders placed by customers that we can complete in a quarter; and • the cyclical nature of the industries and markets that we serve. Our failure to address these risks would adversely affect our results of operations. We have not reached definitive agreements with any traditional consumer electronics retailers to sell our LCoS HDTVs, and we do not have long-term purchase commitments from OEM customers for our home theater or near-to-eye microdisplay products. We have not reached definitive agreements with any traditional consumer electronics retailers to sell our LCoS HDTVs. The inability to secure retailers to sell our LCoS HDTVs would substantially impede our revenue growth and could require us to write off substantial investments that we have made in this aspect of our business. We anticipate that our initial LCoS HDTV sales will be to a limited number of customers. As a result, we will face the risks inherent in relying on a concentration of customers. Any material delay, cancellation, or reduction of orders by one of these customers would adversely affect our operating results. OEM customers for our LCoS HDTVs generally do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments. Although we sometimes enter into manufacturing contracts with our OEM customers, these contracts typically clarify order lead times, inventory risk allocation, and similar matters rather than provide firm, long-term volume purchase commitments. As a result, OEM customers generally can cancel purchase commitments or reduce or delay orders at any time. The cancellation, delay, or reduction of OEM customer commitments could result in reduced revenue and in our holding excess and obsolete inventory and having unabsorbed manufacturing capacity. The large percentage of our OEM sales to customers in the electronics industry, which is subject to severe competitive pressures, rapid technological change, and product obsolescence, increases our inventory and overhead risks. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we make significant decisions, including production schedules, component procurement commitments, facility requirements, personnel needs, and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for our products reduce our ability to estimate accurately the future requirements of those customers. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected as a result of the failure to obtain anticipated orders and deferrals or cancellations of purchase commitments because of changes in customer requirements. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross margins and operating results. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can stress our resources and reduce operating margins. Although we have had a net increase in our manufacturing capacity over the past few years, we may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands or to meet the requirements of a specific project. We have encountered delays in the procurement and production of light engines, and additional delays would harm our ability to manufacture LCoS HDTVs. In 2004, we utilized a third-party supplier to manufacture the light engines used to project the image in our LCoS HDTVs. Due to quality and delivery schedule concerns, we began producing our own light engines rather than rely on our prior supplier. The production of light engines involves complex engineering issues that we must successfully address. In April 2006, we entered into a strategic relationship with China South Industries Group Corporation which resulted in a joint venture company called Sino-Brillian Display Technology Corporation to assemble and sell our light engines initially in China and eventually the rest of the world. If we are unable to produce light engines in sufficient quantities, or our joint venture in China is not successful, our ability to manufacture LCoS HDTVs would be harmed. Our ability to compete successfully in selling LCoS HDTVs depends on a number of factors, both within and outside our control. These factors include the following: • our success in developing and producing new products; • our ability to address the needs of our retail and OEM customers; • the pricing, quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, and diversity of our products; • the quality of our customer service; • our efficiency of production; • product or technology introductions by our competitors; and • foreign currency devaluations, especially in Asian currencies, such as the Japanese yen, the Korean won, and the Taiwanese dollar, which may cause a foreign competitor’s products to be priced significantly lower than our products. 21 Table of Contents Our Arizona facility and its high-volume LCoS microdisplay manufacturing line are important to our success. Our Arizona facility and its high-volume LCoS microdisplay manufacturing line are important to our success. We currently produce all of our LCoS microdisplays on this dedicated line. This facility also houses our principal research, development, engineering, design, and certain managerial operations. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of this facility for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to produce our LCoS microdisplays and to provide technical and manufacturing support for our customers. We have previously experienced low manufacturing yields in commencing production of LCoS microdisplays, and we must achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields. The design and manufacture of microdisplays are new and highly complex processes that are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, and the performance of personnel and equipment. As a result of these factors, we have previously experienced low manufacturing yields in producing LCoS microdisplays. These issues could continue, and we may in the future encounter lower than desired manufacturing yields as we manufacture LCoS microdisplays in higher volumes, which could result in the delay of the ramp-up to high-volume LCoS manufacturing production. A return to lower than expected manufacturing yields could significantly and adversely affect our operating margins. Although we added additional equipment to our Arizona manufacturing facility in the last two years for manufacturing LCoS microdisplays, the high-volume manufacture of LCoS microdisplays will require us to overcome numerous challenges, including the following: • the availability of a sufficient quantity of quality materials; • the implementation of new manufacturing techniques; • the incorporation of new handling procedures; • the maintenance of clean manufacturing environments; and • the ability to master precise tolerances in the manufacturing process. In addition, the complexity of manufacturing processes will increase along with increases in the sophistication of microdisplays. Any problems with our manufacturing operations could result in the lengthening of our delivery schedules, reductions in the quality or performance of our design and manufacturing services, and reduced customer satisfaction. We must effectively manage our growth. The failure to manage our growth effectively could adversely affect our operations. Our ability to manage our planned growth effectively will require us to • enhance our operational, financial, and management systems; • expand our facilities and equipment; and • successfully hire, train, and motivate additional employees, including the technical personnel necessary to operate our production facility in Tempe, Arizona. We depend on key personnel. Our operations depend substantially on the efforts and abilities of our senior management as well as our technical, sales, and other key personnel. The loss of services of one or more of our key employees or the inability to add key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we maintain employment, non-competition, and nondisclosure covenants with certain key personnel, we do not currently have any key person life insurance covering any officer or employee or employment agreements with most of our employees. 22 Table of Contents Any acquisitions that we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. We plan to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets and sales channels, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. While we have no current agreements or active negotiations underway, we may buy businesses, products, or technologies in the future. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. Our experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies is limited. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including the following: • problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, products, or services with our own; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of key employees and customers of purchased organizations; • increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and • risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets in future acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy entails reviewing and potentially reorganizing acquired business operations, corporate infrastructure and systems, and financial controls. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. Increased competition for acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for acquisitions to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired businesses with our own operations or managing acquired businesses profitably without substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems. We may not realize the benefits we expected from our merger with Syntax. The integration of our business with the business of Syntax will be complex, time-consuming, and expensive and may disrupt the combined business. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize any benefits or synergies from the merger. These challenges include the timely, efficient, and successful execution of a number of post-merger events, including the following: • integrating the business, operations, and technologies of the two companies; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • retaining existing customers of each company and attracting additional customers; • retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems; and • the challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs. 23 Table of Contents The inability to manage successfully the substantially larger and internationally diverse organization, or any significant delay in achieving successful management, could have a material adverse effect on us and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. The execution of these post-merger events will involve considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include the following: • the potential disruption of ongoing business and distraction of our management; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of the operations, technology, and other resources of the two companies; • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers, and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the integration of our businesses; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with the merger and the combined operations. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the merger. The inability to integrate successfully the operations, technology, and personnel of our businesses, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on us, and on the market price of our common stock. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. If the benefits of the merger are not achieved, our financial results could be adversely affected. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we are accounting for the merger using the purchase method of accounting. For accounting purposes, Syntax is considered the acquiring company. As a result, we allocated the total purchase price to our net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. We will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the merger, which is expected to be approximately $1.3 million on an annual basis. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired; we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. We incur costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that Syntax did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, and many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: • variations in our quarterly results; • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; 24 Table of Contents • the gain or loss of significant orders; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • announcements of technological innovations by us or by our competitors; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • sales of our common stock in the public market, including sales by former Syntax shareholders; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our stock; and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers, and the economy as a whole. In addition, stocks of technology companies have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to those companies’ operating performance. Public announcements by technology companies concerning, among other things, their performance, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. We are subject to governmental regulations. Like all businesses, our operations are subject to certain federal, state, and local regulatory requirements relating to the environment, waste management, health, and safety matters. We could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable laws and incur substantial costs from complying with existing, new, modified, or more stringent requirements. In addition, our past, current, or future operations may give rise to claims of exposure by employees or the public or to other claims or liabilities relating to environmental, waste management, or health and safety concerns. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of us, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” We have also adopted a stockholder rights plan intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire us to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover. While the plan was designed to guard against coercive or unfair tactics to gain control of us, the plan may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying any attempts by others to obtain control of us. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in control or management of our company, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our effective tax rate is directly affected by the relative proportions of revenue and income before taxes in the 25 Table of Contents various domestic and international jurisdictions in which we operate. We are also subject to changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings. Our effective tax rate is also influenced by the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions, non-recurring charges, and tax assessments against acquired entities with respect to tax periods prior to the acquisition. These matters may cause fluctuations between reporting periods in which the acquisition, assessment, or settlement takes place. Changes to current accounting principles could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Our accounting policies that recently have been or may in the future be affected by changes in the accounting principles include the following: • stock-based compensation; • accounting for variable interest entities; • accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets; and • accounting issues related to certain features of contingently convertible debt instruments and their effect on diluted earnings per share. Changes in these or other rules may have a significant adverse effect on our reported financial results or in the way in which we conduct our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 