ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document. Risks Relating to Our Diversified Media Business Decreases in advertising spending, resulting from economic downturn, war, terrorism, advertiser consolidation or other factors, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 76% of our revenue in 2013 was generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising for broadcast on our radio and television stations and appearing in our newspapers and shoppers. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns and some advertisers may go out of business or declare bankruptcy. The merger or consolidation of advertisers, such as in the banking and airline industries, also generally leads to a reduced amount of collective advertising spending. A recession or economic downturn, as well as a consolidation of advertisers, has had, and in the future could continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our advertising revenue tends to decline in times of national or local crisis because our radio and television stations broadcast more news coverage and sell less advertising time. Terrorist attacks or other wars involving the United States or any other local or national crisis could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some of our printed publications and our radio and television stations generate a large percentage of their advertising revenue from a limited number of sources, including the automotive industry, political advertising and professional sports contracts. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, adverse changes specifically affecting these advertising sources could significantly reduce advertising revenue and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our advertising revenue and circulation revenue depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities that we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect those revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores and local economic conditions in general. If the population demographics, prevailing retail environment or local economic conditions of a community served by us were to change adversely, revenue could decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. This risk is especially evident with respect to the metropolitan Milwaukee market, which is served by our daily newspaper, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, one of our television stations, two of our radio stations, a number of our community publications and several websites, and, collectively, from which we derived approximately 48% of our revenue in 2013. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and during a time of rapid competitive changes, we may lose market share and advertising revenue to competing radio and television stations, newspapers or other types of media competitors, as well as through consolidation of media competitors or changes in advertisers’ media buying strategies. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our radio stations, television stations, newspapers, shoppers and Internet sites compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other radio stations, television stations, newspapers, shoppers and Internet sites as well as with other media such as cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and the evolving mobile and digital advertising space. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do or, even if smaller in size or in terms of financial resources, the ability to create digital niche products and communities and may respond faster or more aggressively to changing competitive dynamics. This competition has intensified as a result of digital media technologies. While the amount of advertising on our digital products has continued to increase, we have experienced, and in the future may continue to experience, a decrease in advertising revenues. Our radio and television broadcasting businesses compete for audiences and advertising revenue primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations to our markets, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite or other news providers, or the adoption of competitive formats by existing radio stations could result in lower ratings and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in ratings technology, or methodology or metrics used by advertisers or other changes in advertisers’ media buying strategies also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The ability of our broadcast digital products to attract significant future advertising revenue is unproven and we may incur increasing costs competing for digital advertising revenue. 16 Index Further, our operations may be adversely affected by consolidation in the broadcast industry, especially if competing stations in our markets are acquired by competitors who have a greater national scope, can offer a greater variety of national and syndicated programming for listeners and viewers or offer enhanced opportunities for advertisers to reach broader markets. In 2008, the FCC issued a Report and Order that modified the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule to permit cross-ownership of one newspaper and one television or radio station in the top twenty markets under certain circumstances. In July 2011, the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit vacated and remanded the modified newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule. In December 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking with respect to its 2010 quadrennial review of the media ownership rules. The NPRM proposes to modify the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule in a similar manner to the modifications adopted in 2008 and to eliminate the television radio cross-ownership rule. We cannot predict the outcome of any further administrative or judicial proceedings related to the media ownership rules. In newspapers and shoppers, our revenue primarily consists of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional and national newspapers, shoppers, magazines, broadcast and cable television, radio, direct mail, Yellow Pages, digital Internet and mobile products and other media. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels, while competition for circulation revenue is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality and customer service. On occasion, our businesses compete with each other for regional and local advertising, particularly in the Milwaukee market. Our local and regional competitors in community publications are typically unique to each market, but we have many competitors for advertising revenue that are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. Circulation revenue and our ability to achieve price increases for our print products are affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in our various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among young people. We may incur increasing costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid print and digital subscriptions. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid print and digital subscriptions, our revenue may decline and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Seasonal and cyclical changes in advertising volume affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations and may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations that we expect to continue to affect our results of operations in future periods. Our first quarter of the year tends to be our weakest quarter because advertising volume is typically at its lowest levels following the holiday season. Our fourth quarter tends to be our strongest quarter primarily because of revenue from holiday season advertising. Our quarterly revenue also varies based on the dynamics of the television broadcast industry. In particular, we experience fluctuations, primarily during our third and fourth quarters, during political voting periods as advertising significantly increases. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2020, our NBC affiliated stations experience increased viewership and revenue during Olympics broadcasts in the first or third quarters of the years in which the Olympics are held. Other factors that affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, changes in newsprint prices, changes in the buying strategies of advertisers and general economic factors. These quarterly fluctuations in revenue and results of operations may cause our stock price to be volatile. We may not be able to acquire television stations, radio stations, newspapers or assets related to our digital growth strategy, successfully manage acquired properties or increase our profits from these operations. Our diversified media business has in the past expanded through acquisitions of television and radio stations in selected markets. We intend to pursue continued growth through selected acquisitions, including acquisitions and investments related to our digital growth strategy, if we are able to identify strategic acquisition candidates, negotiate definitive agreements on acceptable terms and, as necessary, secure additional financing. Our acquisition strategy includes certain risks. For example: · we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if identified, negotiate successfully their acquisition; · we may not be able to secure additional financing necessary to complete acquisitions; · we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations; · we may fail to achieve anticipated financial benefits from acquisitions; · we may encounter regulatory changes or delays or other impediments in connection with proposed transactions; 17 Index · we may not be able to pursue acquisitions in certain of our markets because of FCC regulations which limit the number of television and radio stations that can be owned in a market; · our acquisition strategy may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of our businesses; · key personnel at acquired companies may leave employment; and · we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than more profitable areas. In addition, we compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully make future acquisitions or what effects those acquisitions may have on our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future cluster multiple radio and television stations in markets that we believe have demographic characteristics and growth potential suitable to further our business objectives. Multiple stations in the same geographic market area could make our results of operations more vulnerable to adverse local economic or demographic changes than they would otherwise be if our stations were located in geographically diverse areas. We anticipate that we would finance potential acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities and/or borrowings, which would reduce our cash available for other purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we would be able to obtain needed financing in the event strategic acquisition opportunities are identified. Another potential source of financing for future acquisitions is to incur more debt, which would lead to increased leverage and debt service requirements. We may also consider financing acquisitions by issuing additional shares of class A common stock, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership. Inherent in any future acquisitions is the risk of transitioning company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisitions. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology, evolving industry standards, and approaches to content distribution, our radio stations may not be able to effectively compete. The broadcast media industry is subject to evolving media technologies and evolving industry standards, as well as approaches to content distribution. Several new technologies are being developed and/or utilized that may compete with our radio stations, including: · audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications and wireless systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats, including the ability to create personalized formats and content; · wireless Internet technology in the automobile and satellite digital audio radio service, with enhanced sound quality comparable to that of compact discs and that provide numerous niche formats; · in-band on-channel digital radio, which could improve the quality of existing AM and FM stations, including stations owned by us; · Internet radio stations and Internet radio services; · expanded approval of low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets designed to serve small, localized areas; · enhanced capabilities of smart phones, MP3 players, tablet devices, electronic readers and other mobile devices; and · portable digital devices and systems that permit users to listen to programming on a time-delayed basis. These new technologies have the potential to introduce new market competitors or change the means by which radio advertisers can most efficiently and effectively reach their target audiences. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these evolving technologies. 18 Index If we are unable to respond to changes in technology, evolving industry standards and approaches to content distribution, our television stations may not be able to effectively compete. New technologies and content distribution avenues could also adversely affect our television stations. Programming alternatives such as cable, direct-to-home satellite services, mobile media services, pay-per-view, on-demand programming, the Internet, including Internet capability built into televisions, and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences. Over the past decade, MVPDs have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable television and other technological changes, including the entry by certain telecommunications companies into the video services delivery market, and the launch of “over-the-top” providers that deliver video programming directly to viewers over the Internet has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs may, in the future, increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire programming. The enhanced video and audio capabilities of smart phones, MP3 players, tablet devices, electronic readers and other mobile devices and the increasing distribution of programming over these devices and the Internet also have the potential to affect television viewership. In addition, video compression techniques now in use with direct broadcast satellites and, increasingly, by cable and wireless providers, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques, as well as other technological developments, which are applicable to all video delivery systems and enable television broadcasters operating digital signals to offer multiple channels, have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our television broadcast business. Increased use by consumers of digital video recording technologies may decrease viewership of advertisements and result in decreased advertising revenues for our television stations. Digital video recording technologies offered by cable and satellite systems allow viewers to digitally record, store and play back television programming at a later time. Most of these technologies permit viewers to fast forward through advertisements; however, a digital video recording system introduced by satellite provider DISH Network in 2012 permits viewers that record and play back programming to skip advertisements entirely, subject to certain time limitations. The major broadcast networks have challenged the DISH ad-skipping technology in court, and the outcome of the litigation is unknown. The use of these technologies may decrease viewership of commercials as recorded by media measurement services such as Nielsen Media Research and, as a result, lower the advertising revenues of our television stations. The current ratings provided by Nielsen for use by broadcast stations are limited to live viewing plus viewing of a digitally recorded program within certain time periods including same day viewing and viewing within three and seven days. The effects of new ratings system technologies including people meters and set-top boxes, and the ability of such technologies to be a reliable standard that can be used by advertisers is currently unknown. Security breaches, computer malware or other “cyber attacks” could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. Our operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business and our customers. Any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, or similar act by any malevolent party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or the systems of our clients or vendors. These events could create financial liability, regulatory sanction, or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider. If the network programming we broadcast pursuant to network affiliation agreements does not maintain satisfactory viewership levels or if the networks we are affiliated with terminate or do not renew our affiliation agreements, our advertising revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The television viewership levels, and ultimately advertising revenue, for each of our stations are materially dependent upon network programming, which is provided pursuant to network affiliation agreements. We cannot assure you that network programming will achieve or maintain satisfactory viewership levels. In particular, because four of our stations (including one of our low-power stations) are parties to affiliation agreements with ABC, two with NBC, three with FOX, two with CBS and one with CW, failures of these networks to provide programming to attract viewers or generate satisfactory ratings may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our network affiliation agreements on as favorable terms or at all. Increases in reverse network compensation payments, under which we compensate networks for programming pursuant to our network affiliation agreements, and increases in the share of retransmission fees from MVPDs payable to networks could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. The termination or non-renewal, or renewal on less favorable terms, of the affiliation agreements could have an adverse effect on us. 19 Index Changes in the relationship of television networks with their affiliates and other content providers and distribution channels also could affect our results of operation. For example, networks and other content providers recently have begun to sell programming content through new distribution channels and offer viewers the ability to watch programs on-demand, rather than on an established “live” television broadcast schedule. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Television programming is a significant operating cost component in our broadcasting operations. We cannot assure you that we will not be exposed in the future to increased programming costs. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Television networks have been seeking arrangements from their affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs. We cannot predict the nature or scope of any such potential compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. In addition, acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. If our key on-air or management talent does not remain with us or loses popularity, our advertising revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. We employ or contract with a number of on-air personalities and hosts of television and radio programs whose ratings success depends in part on audience loyalty in their respective markets. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, we cannot assure you that all or any of these key employees will remain with us over the long term. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty to our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty could reduce ratings and may impact our ability to generate advertising revenue. In addition, our key local management employees are important to our business since we believe that our growth and future success depends on retaining local management with knowledge of the community, its audience and its advertisers. Our inability to attract or retain these skilled personnel could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the professional sports industry or changes in our contractual relationships with local professional sports teams could result in decreased ratings for our Milwaukee radio station and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Milwaukee radio station, WTMJ-AM, currently maintains exclusive radio broadcast rights for the Green Bay Packers, Milwaukee Bucks and Milwaukee Brewers, and arranges a statewide radio network for the broadcast of their games. Our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by changes in the professional sports industry, such as a relocation of one of the local professional sports teams from the Wisconsin market or the potential loss of exclusivity due to league or team initiatives such as pay-per-listen, satellite radio or Internet broadcast of games. In addition, we could lose our exclusive broadcast rights during periodic competitive bidding, or suffer damage to the marketplace value of sports advertising due to factors such as a players’ strike, negative publicity or downturn in on-field performance of a team. If cable systems and other video distribution systems do not carry our digital channels or we do not enter into acceptable agreements with such systems, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. Since our television stations are highly dependent on carriage by cable and satellite systems in many of the areas they service, any modifications to rules regarding the obligations of cable systems or satellite providers to carry digital television signals of local broadcast stations could result in some of our television stations or channels not being carried on cable systems or direct to home satellite systems, which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We have elected retransmission consent rather than must-carry with cable systems and satellite providers for most of our television stations. If we are unable to negotiate retransmission consent agreements in a timely manner or on favorable economic terms, some of our stations may not be carried on certain cable or direct to home satellite systems for a period of time and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may also be unable to negotiate or renegotiate acceptable agreements with other types of video distribution systems, such as telecommunications companies or over-the-top providers that deliver programming over the Internet which could also cause our revenue and results of operations to be adversely affected. Changes in the Communications Act or the FCC’s rules with respect to the negotiation of retransmission consent agreements between broadcasters and MVPDs could also adversely impact our ability to negotiate acceptable transmission consent agreements. In addition, continued consolidation among cable television operators could adversely impact our ability to negotiate acceptable retransmission consent agreements. In February 2014, Comcast Corporation, the largest cable television operator, announced that it was acquiring Time Warner Cable, Inc., which is the second largest cable television operator. The transaction remains subject to regulatory approvals of the Department of Justice and the FCC. There is pending a Supreme Court lawsuit challenging the ability of certain over-the-top providers that deliver programming via the Internet to retransmit broadcast signals without compensating the station owner. A determination by the Supreme Court that this practice is lawful could negatively impact our ability to negotiate favorable retransmission consent agreements in the future and could adversely affect our revenues and result of operations. 20 Index If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our business will be impaired. Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC for a term of eight years and are renewable. Our timely-filed renewal applications for stations WTMJ-TV, WTMJ-AM, WFTX-TV, KHTT-FM, KEZO-FM, KQTH-FM, WSYM-TV, WTVF-TV, WACY-TV and WGBA-TV (and related low-power station WTKI-CA) have not been granted by the FCC. Pursuant to FCC rules, our broadcast licenses for these stations remain in effect pending processing by the FCC of their timely filed renewal applications. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them with conditions, including renewals for less than a full term. We cannot assure you that our pending or future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals, even if granted, will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, or renew them with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. The FCC may impose sanctions or penalties for violations of rules or regulations. If we or any of our officers, directors or significant shareholders materially violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or are convicted of a felony or are found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition by a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us that could involve the imposition of monetary penalties, the denial of a license renewal application, revocation of a broadcast license or other sanctions. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the broadcast station only after we had exhausted all administrative and judicial review without success. In addition, the FCC has recently emphasized more vigorous enforcement of certain of its regulations, including indecency standards, sponsorship identification requirements, the prohibition on “payola” and equal employment opportunity outreach and recordkeeping requirements. These enhanced enforcement efforts could result in increased costs associated with the adoption and implementation of stricter compliance procedures at our broadcast facilities or FCC fines. We could experience delays in expanding our business due to antitrust laws. The Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice and the FCC carefully review our proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number and types of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. The Department of Justice has challenged proposed acquisitions of radio and television stations, particularly in instances where an existing licensee seeks to acquire additional stations in the same market. Some of these challenges ultimately resulted in consent decrees requiring, among other things, divestitures of certain stations. In general, the Department of Justice has more closely scrutinized broadcast station acquisitions that result in local market shares in excess of 40% of advertising revenue. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive acquisition opportunity. The filing of petitions or complaints against us or any FCC licensee from which we acquire a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, refusing to grant, or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. Regulatory changes may result in increased competition in our radio and television broadcasting business. The radio and television broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Among other things, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and FCC rules and policies require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses, and limit the number and types of broadcast properties in a market in which any person or entity may have an attributable interest. Media ownership restrictions include a variety of limits on local ownership, such as a limit of one television station in medium and smaller markets and two stations in larger markets as long as one station is not a top-four rated station (known as the duopoly rule), a prohibition on ownership of a daily English-language newspaper and a television or radio station in the same market, and limits both on the ownership of radio stations, and on common ownership of radio stations and television stations, in the same local market. In December 2011, the FCC issued a Notice of Rulemaking (“Ownership NPRM”) proposing to modify the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule and to eliminate the radio television cross-ownership rule. The Ownership NPRM also raises questions regarding whether the regulatory treatment of joint operating agreements between television stations in a market that are not commonly owned, including agreements for joint sales of advertising time, news sharing, and the provision of technical, promotional, and back-office services, should be changed. Currently, such arrangements are common among television stations in medium and smaller television markets where ownership of more than one television station is not permitted and the station providing services is not deemed to have an attributable interest in the station receiving services. In the Ownership NPRM the FCC requested comments regarding whether such joint operating arrangements should be considered attributable. In addition, in a separate rulemaking proceeding that was issued in 2004, the FCC requested comments regarding whether a television station that sells more than 15% of the advertising inventory for another separately owned television station in a market pursuant to a joint sales agreement should be deemed to have an attributable interest in that station. We are unable to predict the outcome of either the Ownership NPRM or the proceeding regarding joint sales agreements or of requests for review or appeals of any rule changes adopted by the FCC. 21 Index In addition, the 2004 Consolidated Appropriations Act prohibits any person or entity from having an attributable interest in broadcast television stations with an aggregate audience reach exceeding 39% of television households nationally. The increase in the national television viewership cap gave the largest television operators the ability to continue to hold or to acquire additional stations, which may give them a competitive advantage over us, since they have much greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition, the networks’ ability to acquire additional stations could give them “leverage” over their affiliates on issues such as compensation, program clearance and program distribution other than through their affiliates, in part because of the risk that a network facing an uncooperative affiliate could acquire a station in the market and terminate its agreement with that affiliate. In calculating the number of households a station reaches, the FCC attributes a UHF television station with only 50% of the television households in a market. An FCC proceeding proposing to eliminate the UHF discount is pending. If the proposal were to be adopted, it could limit the ability of the largest television operators to continue to acquire additional television stations. Congress, the FCC or other federal agencies may in the future consider and adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation, ownership and profitability of our television and radio stations and result in the loss of audience share and advertising revenue for our stations. Examples of such changes include: · proposals to increase regulatory fees or to impose spectrum use or other fees on FCC licenses; · proposals to restrict or prohibit the advertising of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages; · proposals to limit the tax deductibility of advertising expenses by advertisers; · proposals to impose sales tax on advertising expense; · proposals to revise the rules relating to political broadcasting; · proposals to require broadcast stations to operate studios in the communities to which they are licensed, requiring construction of new studios, and to provide staffing on a 24 hour per day basis; and · proposals to require radio broadcasters to pay royalties to musicians and record labels for the performance of music played on the stations. The FCC’s National Broadband Plan may result in a loss of spectrum for our stations and potentially adversely impact our ability to compete. In February 2012, Congress passed and the President signed legislation that, among other things, grants the FCC authority to conduct incentive auctions to recapture certain spectrum currently used by television broadcasters and repurpose it for other uses. In October 2012, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to begin to develop the rules and procedures to implement incentive auctions authorized by Congress. That rulemaking process remains ongoing. The incentive auction process would have three components. First, the FCC would conduct a reverse auction by which each television broadcaster may choose to retain its rights to a 6 MHz channel of spectrum or volunteer, in return for payment, to relinquish all of the station’s spectrum by surrendering its license; relinquish the right to some of its spectrum and thereafter share spectrum with another station; or modify its UHF channel license to a VHF channel license. Second, in order to accommodate the spectrum reallocated to new users, the FCC will “repack” the remaining television broadcast spectrum, which may require certain television stations that did not participate in the reverse auction to modify their transmission facilities, including requiring such stations to operate on different channels. In addition, Congress directed the FCC, when repacking television broadcast spectrum to make reasonable efforts to preserve a station’s coverage area and population served. Also, the FCC is prohibited from requiring a station to move involuntarily from the UHF band to the VHF band or from the high VHF band to the low VHF band. The statue does not protect low power stations in the repacking process. Third, the FCC would conduct a forward auction of the relinquished spectrum to new users. The FCC must complete the reverse auction and the forward auction by September 30, 2022, and has announced that as of now it intends to conduct the auction during 2015. The outcome of the incentive auction and repacking of broadcast television spectrum, or the impact of such items on our business, cannot be predicted. 22 Index The performance of our NBC affiliates may suffer due to Comcast’s ownership of NBC Universal. In January 2011, Comcast and General Electric Company (“GE”), the parent of NBC Universal (“NBCU”) consummated a joint venture in which the programming assets of Comcast and NBCU were combined and Comcast acquired a controlling interest in NBCU. The FCC approved the joint venture in January 2011. In 2013, Comcast aquired GE’s remaining interest in NBCU. Comcast’s control and ownership of NBCU could impact our NBC-affiliated television stations. We currently have a network affiliation agreement with NBC Universal for two of our television stations and a retransmission consent agreement with Comcast for distribution of several of our television stations. Comcast’s control and ownership of NBCU could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable terms under future network affiliation and cable carriage agreements. In addition, Comcast could provide popular NBC sports and entertainment programming on additional outlets including co-owned cable channels and the Internet. Comcast’s ownership of NBCU may affect the economic incentives that currently form the basis of the network/affiliate relationship, and, over time, may result in the evolution of the network/affiliate relationship so that local affiliates become less important to the network. The FCC Order approving the 2011 joint venture included certain conditions, many of which were contained in private agreements between Comcast and the major-network affiliate associations, to mitigate these concerns. Most of these conditions expire in 2017, and Comcast’s ownership of NBCU could ultimately affect the profitability of our NBC affiliated stations. The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could materially adversely affect our business and results of operation. We use studios, satellite systems, transmitter facilities and the Internet to originate, receive and distribute our station programs and network programs and commercials. We rely on third-party contracts and services to operate our origination and distribution facilities. These third-party contracts and services include, but are not limited to, electrical power, satellite transponders, uplinks and downlinks and telecom circuits. Distribution may be disrupted due to one or more third parties losing their ability to provide particular services to us, which could adversely affect our distribution capabilities. A disruption can be caused as a result of any number of events such as local disasters (accidental or environmental), various acts of terrorism, power outages, major telecom connectivity failures or satellite failures. Our ability to originate, receive or distribute programming may be disrupted for an undetermined period of time until alternate facilities are engaged and put on-line. Furthermore, until third-party services resume, the inability to originate or distribute programming could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Proposed legislation could require radio broadcasters to pay royalties to record labels and recording artists. Legislation has been previously introduced in Congress that would require radio broadcasters to pay a royalty to record labels and performing artists for use of their recorded songs. Thus far, the legislation failed to pass but it may be reintroduced in the future. Currently, we pay royalties to song composers and publishers through Broadcast Music, Inc. (“BMI”), the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”) and SESAC, Inc. (“SESAC”). The proposed legislation would add an additional layer of royalties to be paid directly to the record labels and artists. It is not currently known what proposed legislation, if any, will become law, whether industry groups will enter into an agreement with respect to fees, and what significance this royalty would have on our operations and financial results. Changes relating to consumer information collection and use could adversely affect our ability to collect and use data, which could harm our business. Public concern over methods of information gathering has led to the enactment of legislation in most jurisdictions that restricts the collection and use of consumer information. Our publishing business relies in part on telemarketing sales, which are affected by “do not call” legislation at both the federal and state levels. We also engage in e-mail marketing and the collection and use of consumer information in connection with our publishing and broadcasting businesses and our growing digital efforts. Further legislation, government regulations, industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations or a change in customs relating to the collection, management, aggregation and use of consumer information could materially increase the cost of collecting that data, or limit our ability to provide information to our customers or otherwise utilize telemarketing or e-mail marketing or distribute our digital products across multiple platforms, and could adversely affect our results of operations. Decreases in circulation may adversely affect our revenues, and circulation decreases may accelerate as we offer expanded digital content and digital subscriptions. Advertising and circulation revenues are affected by the number of subscribers and single copy purchasers, readership levels and overall audience reach. Our daily newspaper, and the newspaper industry as a whole, is experiencing difficulty maintaining paid print circulation and related revenues. This is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media products and sources other than traditional newspapers (often free to users), and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news other than from a newspaper. In addition, our expanded digital content and new digital subscriptions could negatively impact print circulation volumes if readers cancel subscriptions. A prolonged decrease in net paid circulation copies could have a material effect on our revenues, particularly if we are not able to otherwise grow our readership levels and overall audience reach. To maintain our circulation base, we may incur additional costs, and we may not be able to recover these costs through circulation and advertising revenues. 23 Index Our publishing business may suffer if there is a significant increase in the cost of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint. The basic raw material for newspapers and shoppers is newsprint. Our newsprint consumption related to our publications totaled $14.1 million in 2013, which was 9.1% of our total publishing revenue. In 2013, we purchased the majority of our newsprint requirements through a purchasing agent, which has the option to purchase newsprint from multiple suppliers. We may purchase additional newsprint in the spot market from other suppliers. Our inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future or significant increases in newsprint costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry standards and trends, our publishing operations may not be able to effectively compete. The publishing industry is being challenged by the preferences of today’s “on demand” culture, particularly among younger segments of the population. Some consumers prefer to receive all or a portion of their news in new media formats and from sources other than traditional newspapers. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as the Internet, various mobile devices, electronic readers, cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized newspaper readership. New digital subscription offerings may not attract readers in sufficient numbers to generate significant revenues or offset losses in paid print circulation revenues. The shift in consumer behaviors has the potential to introduce new market competitors or change the means by which traditional newspaper advertisers can most efficiently and effectively reach their target audiences. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new products or services that could compete with these evolving technologies. Other Business Risks Our business has been and may be in the future negatively affected by an impairment charge of goodwill, broadcast licenses or other intangible assets. In 2012, due to declines in revenue share, declines in projected long-term market revenues, and a reduction in radio perpetuity growth rates, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for broadcast licenses of $1.7 million. In 2011, due to a decline in projected long-term market revenues and an increase in discount rates, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for broadcast licenses of $0.9 million. There was no impairment of our goodwill in 2011, 2012 or 2013. As of December 29, 2013, we had a total of $317.6 million of goodwill, broadcast licenses and other intangible assets on our balance sheet, representing 53.4% of our total assets. The 2013 and 2012 impairment charges had, and any future non-cash impairment charge of goodwill, broadcast licenses or other intangible assets would have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to utilize deferred tax assets to offset future federal and state taxable income. As of December 29, 2013, we had a total of $22.6 million of deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. We expect to realize the deferred tax assets to reduce our consolidated federal and state income tax liabilities over a period of time not to exceed 20 years. However, we may not be able to fully realize the deferred tax assets if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability are insufficient to permit their use. In the future, we may be required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets if we believe we are unable to realize them, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if statutory tax rates are ever reduced, our overall deferred tax asset would be required to be revalued, which could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. The economic environment or a return to volatility in US credit markets could affect our financing arrangements. One or more of the lenders in our secured credit facility syndicate could be unable to fund future draws thereunder or take other positions adverse to us. In such an event, our liquidity could be severely constrained with an adverse impact on our ability to operate our businesses. In addition, our ability to meet our credit agreement’s financial covenants may also be affected by events beyond our control, including a further deterioration of current economic and industry conditions, which could negatively affect our earnings. If it is determined we are not in compliance with these financial covenants, the lenders in our credit facility syndicate will be entitled to take certain actions, including acceleration of all amounts due under the facility. If the lenders take such action, we may be forced to amend the terms of the credit agreement, obtain a waiver or find alternative sources of capital. Obtaining new financing arrangements or amending our existing one may result in significantly higher fees and ongoing interest costs as compared to those in our current arrangement. If we are unable to obtain alternative sources of capital, it may be necessary to significantly restructure our business operations or sell assets, or, in the event of a prolonged and extensive economic decline, seek bankruptcy protection. Our acquisition of NewsChannel5 Network, LLC in Nashville in December 2012 was financed by borrowings under our amended and restated credit facility, which borrowings substantially increased our debt service obligations. As a result, we may have less cash flow available for business operations, we could become increasingly vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and interest rate trends, and our ability to obtain future financing may be limited. 24 Index We entered into an amendment and restatement to our then existing credit facility in December 2012 to provide for a secured term loan and revolving credit facility with initial aggregate commitments of $350 million to fund the purchase price for NewsChannel5 Network, LLC in Nashville and for general corporate purposes. As of December 29, 2013, we had $195.0 million in borrowings under our amended and restated credit facility. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt will depend on future performance of our businesses, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our secured amended and restated credit facility contains financial and restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things, borrow additional funds or take advantage of business opportunities. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and debt service capability. Our increased level of debt and the financial and restrictive covenants contained in our secured amended and restated credit facility could have important consequences on our financial position and results of operations, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detraction from our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our markets or the economy generally; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; and making us vulnerable to increase in interest rates because debt under our secured amended and restated credit facility bears interest at variable rates. Our growth strategy includes future acquisitions which involve inherent risk. In order to increase our market presence and advertising reach, we may make strategic business acquisitions that we believe complement our businesses. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, including, among other things: (1) failure to successfully integrate the purchased operations, technologies, products or services and maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures; (2) substantial unanticipated integration costs; (3) loss of key employees including those of the acquired business; (4) diversion of management’s attention from other operations; (5) failure to retain the customers of the acquired business; (6) failure to achieve any projected synergies and performance targets; (7) additional debt and/or assumption of known or unknown liabilities; (8) potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; and (9) a write-off of goodwill, client lists, other intangibles and amortization of expenses. If we fail to successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, we may not achieve projected results and there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies, stations or operations that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges; we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from our day-to-day operations. In addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of key personnel from our company or the acquired businesses. Further, employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may disrupt the businesses of our company or the acquired businesses. We may not be able to realize the benefits of anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization and systems integration. Sustained increases in costs of providing pension benefits may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have a funded, qualified defined benefit pension plan that covers certain employees and an unfunded, non-qualified pension plan for certain employees whose benefits under the qualified pension plan may be restricted due to limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. Effective January 1, 2011, the benefit accruals under the qualified defined benefit pension plan and the unfunded, non-qualified pension plan were permanently frozen. Two significant elements in determining pension income or pension expense are the discount rate used in projecting benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets. A lower discount rate driven by lower interest rates would increase our pension expense by increasing the calculated value of our liabilities. If our expected return on plan assets is not achieved, our pension expense and cash contributions to the pension plans would increase. As of the end of 2013, our pension plan remains underfunded. If the equity markets do not sufficiently recover or the discount rate does not increase or existing legislative relief is not enough, we will be obligated to make substantial contributions in future years to fund the deficiency. Current projections indicate we will need to contribute $22.9 million over the next four years, beginning in 2014. A significant increase in our obligation to make contributions to our pension plans would reduce the cash available for working capital, debt reduction and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. 25 Index We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We are dependent upon the efforts of our senior executive officers. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain our personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key personnel, other than with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and these individuals may not continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. We have, however, entered into change in control agreements with certain of our senior executives which provide, within two years after a change in control, severance payments and benefits to the executive if his or her employment is terminated without cause or the executive resigns for good reason. We do not have key man insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. The loss of any senior executive officer could require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our inability to find a replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees or regulatory changes. As of December 29, 2013, we and our subsidiaries had approximately 1,800 full-time and 900 part-time employees compared to approximately 1,800 full-time and 700 part-time employees at December 30, 2012. Currently, there are 11 bargaining units representing approximately 600 (or approximately 22%) of our total number of employees. We have entered into various collective bargaining agreements with these bargaining units. Six of these agreements will expire within the next two years. We cannot assure you the results of negotiations of future collective bargaining agreements or of negotiations related to reopening of collective bargaining agreements in order to reduce our labor costs or achieve other objectives will be negotiated without interruptions in our businesses. We cannot assure you that strikes will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot assure you the impact of future collective bargaining agreements will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also are subject to a wide variety of employment laws and regulations. Future changes in applicable requirements or regulatory or judicial interpretations of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Index 