Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition We have defaulted on our senior debt and our lenders have the right to accelerate our obligations at any time, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. On December 31, 2008, we did not make the $4.5 million interest payment that was due to the holders of our $119.5 million principal amount of senior secured notes, or the Senior Notes. In early January, we received a notice of default on behalf of the holders of the Senior Notes. We are currently seeking a number of financing and strategic alternatives and are in discussions with our holders of the Senior Notes, including in particular LB I Group Inc., an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., which holds approximately 75% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, with respect to our December 31, 2008 payment default and the status of the Senior Notes. There can be no assurance that we can reach such resolution, obtain sufficient financing or enter into other transactions to satisfy our Senior Note obligations in a timely manner, or at all. At any time, the holders of 50% of more of the principal amount of the Senior Notes can accelerate our obligations under the Senior Notes and require payment of the full principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus interest and a prepayment penalty. We do not have sufficient cash resources to pay the amount that would become payable in the event of an acceleration of the Senior Notes, and even if we could obtain additional financing, it is unlikely that we could obtain an amount sufficient to repay the Senior Notes in full. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that our recurring losses from operations and net capital deficiency raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The holders of the Senior Notes could seek to foreclose on our assets, as a result of which we would likely need to seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and in that event, it is unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. The holders of the Senior Notes have a first priority security interest in all of our assets other than our inventory and accounts receivable and, in the event of an acceleration of our obligations and our failure to pay the amount that would then become due, the noteholders could seek to foreclose on our assets, as a result of which we would likely need to seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In that event, we could seek to reorganize our business, or we or a trustee appointed by the court could be required to liquidate our assets. In either of these events, whether the stockholders receive any value for their shares is highly uncertain. If we needed to liquidate our assets, we might realize significantly less from them than the value that could be obtained in a transaction outside of a bankruptcy proceeding. The funds resulting from the liquidation of our assets would be used first to pay off the debt owed to secured and unsecured creditors, including the holders of the Senior Notes, before any funds would be available to pay our stockholders. If we were required to liquidate under the federal bankruptcy laws, it is unlikely that stockholders would receive any value for their shares. Our operations have resulted in negative cash flows, we are seeking to raise additional funds to fund our operating expenses and debt obligations as soon as possible, which could cause us to have to accept terms that are harmful to our business, dilutive to our stockholders or otherwise disadvantageous to our existing stockholders, and if we are unable to secure additional funding, we may be required to significantly scale back our operations, significantly reduce our headcount, seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and/or discontinue many of our activities which could negatively affect our business and prospects. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $25.9 million. While we believe that our current cash resources, together with anticipated revenues from product sales, would be sufficient to fund our operations, they are not sufficient to fund both our operations and any payment of interest or repayment of principal on the Senior Notes. In addition, we have based the estimate related to funding our operations on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, including assumptions with respect to the level of revenues from sales of Xyrem and Luvox CR, and we could exhaust our available financial resources sooner than we currently expect. In light of the circumstances described above, including our default under our Senior Notes and discussions with the noteholders, we are seeking to raise funds as soon as possible. We may seek to raise additional funds through collaborations, partnering arrangements, development financings, or public or private debt or equity financings. It is likely that the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes would be required for some of these capital raising transactions. We cannot assure you that the Senior Note holders would consent to any transactions that we might propose. Because the holders of the Senior Notes currently have a first 23 Table of Contents priority security interest in our assets, they may be unwilling to consent to any transaction that limits their rights or impacts the protection of their security interest. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights that are senior to holders of our common stock and could contain covenants that restrict our operations. Any additional equity financing would likely be substantially dilutive to our stockholders, particularly given the prices at which our common stock has been recently trading. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the sale of equity securities, new investors could have rights superior to our existing stockholders. If we raise funds through collaborations, partnering arrangements or development financings, we may be required to relinquish, on terms that are not favorable to us, rights to some of our products or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. The terms of future financings may restrict our ability to raise additional capital, which could delay or prevent the further development or commercialization of our products or product candidates. Our need to raise capital soon may require us to accept terms that may harm our business or be disadvantageous to our current stockholders, particularly in light of the current illiquidity and instability in the global financial markets. If we are unable to raise sufficient additional funds when needed, we would be required to further reduce operating expenses by, among other things, curtailing significantly or delaying or eliminating part or all of our development programs, including JZP-6, and/or scaling back our commercial operations, or we may need to seek protection under the provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have reduced the net cash used in our operations by implementing three reductions in force in 2008 and focusing our efforts on our commercial products and JZP-6, and we are continuing to review our operations in order to identify additional measures to further reduce spending. We cannot predict with certainty the level of our product sales. If product sales do not meet our expectations and/or we do not raise additional funds, we will need to further reduce our expenditures, perhaps significantly, to preserve our cash. The cost-cutting measures we have taken and may take in the future may not be sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements or for us to reach profitability, and they may negatively affect our business and prospects. We have a substantial amount of debt, on which we are in default, which may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. There is currently outstanding $119.5 million principal amount of the Senior Notes on which we are in default. Even if the holders of the Senior Notes do not accelerate our obligations under the Senior Notes, that debt, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important negative consequences. For example, it could: • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital , and important corporate activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital and execution of our business strategy. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The terms of our debt could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions. Even if we are able to resolve the default under our Senior Notes, our business may be subject to a number of limitations. The terms of our Senior Notes currently contain, and any future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. Our existing debt includes covenants, including requirements that we: • generally not borrow additional amounts without the approval of our lenders; • dispose of certain assets only in accordance with the terms of our existing senior secured debt; • not impair our lenders’ security interests in our assets; and • repay a portion of the debt early under certain circumstances. In addition, under the existing terms of our Senior Notes, we expect that we will be required to maintain restricted cash balances equal to 15% of the then outstanding principal amount of Senior Notes after the quarter ending March 31, 2009, which we may not be able to do, particularly if we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funding. If we are not able to maintain any required restricted cash balance under the terms of the Senior Notes or to change the terms of the Senior Notes, the holders of the Senior Notes may exercise their rights and remedies under the notes, which may include the acceleration of the indebtedness. 24 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses, which may continue for the next few years and, if we are to grow our business in the future, we will need to commit substantial resources, which could increase the extent of any future losses. We have a limited operating history and have incurred significant net losses since our inception in 2003, and we may continue to incur net losses for the next few years. Our net loss for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 was $184.3 million and we had an accumulated deficit of $500.8 million at December 31, 2008. To grow our business in the future, we will need to commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming product development and clinical trials of our product candidates and significant funds to our commercial operations. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the amount of sales and other revenues from our commercial products, including selling prices for products that we may begin selling and price increases for our current products; • market acceptance of and the number of prescriptions written for our products; • selling and marketing costs associated with Xyrem and Luvox CR in the U.S.; • revenues from current and potential future development and/or commercial collaboration partners; • the results from our second Phase III pivotal clinical trial for JZP-6; • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of our preclinical studies, clinical trials, including our Phase IV clinical trial commitment to the FDA for Luvox CR, and other research and development activities; • the number and characteristics of product candidates that we pursue; • the cost and timing of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates; • the cost and timing of obtaining regulatory approval; • payments of milestones to third parties; • increased expenses associated with our current employees and new employees hired to support our continued growth; • the cost of investigations, litigation and/or settlements related to regulatory activities; • the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the extent to which we acquire, in-license or invest in new businesses, products or product candidates. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to successfully increase sales of Xyrem or Luvox CR in the U.S., which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. An increase in revenue from sales of our commercial products in 2009 is a critical part of our budget for 2009 and affects our negotiations with the holders of our Senior Notes and potential future sources of financing. We cannot assure you that Xyrem or Luvox CR prescriptions will increase at the level estimated in our budget, or at all. Sales and prescriptions of Xyrem increased in 2008; however, cataplexy and excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy are orphan conditions, which means that a relatively limited number of people suffer from those conditions. Sales of and prescriptions for Luvox CR have been lower than anticipated since its launch. On February 5, 2009, we amended our Luvox CR license agreement with Solvay. Under the terms of the amendment, we are required to pay Solvay $6.0 million in 2009, $4.0 million in 2010, $4.5 in 2011 and other payments thereafter. If sales of Luvox CR do not increase, they may not cover these payments plus the cost to manufacture, market and sell the product and our Phase IV clinical trial commitment to the FDA. If sales of Xyrem and Luvox CR do not increase as expected, we may be required to further reduce our operating expenses, and our ability to raise additional funds would likely be adversely affected, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 25 Table of Contents Our only product candidate currently in Phase III clinical trials is JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. The Phase III clinical trials may not show JZP-6 to be safe and effective for the treatment of fibromyalgia or the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not approve JZP-6 for marketing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We are currently developing JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Our Phase III clinical program for JZP-6 includes two Phase III pivotal clinical trials, both of which must have statistically significant positive results before we can submit an NDA to the FDA seeking approval of JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Although we received favorable results from the first Phase III pivotal clinical trial in November 2008, these results may not be indicative of the clinical results from the second Phase III pivotal clinical trial. Our Phase III clinical program for JZP-6 is costly, and we do not expect to have preliminary results from our second Phase III pivotal clinical trial until mid-2009. We do not know if the second Phase III pivotal clinical trial will show JZP-6 to be safe and effective for the treatment of fibromyalgia, or if the FDA or other regulatory authorities will approve JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. Further, although JZP-6 has the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Xyrem, which has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, this does not assure approval by the FDA, or any other regulatory authorities, of this active pharmaceutical ingredient for the treatment of fibromyalgia. An unsuccessful second Phase III pivotal clinical trial or a failure to obtain FDA or other regulatory approval of JZP-6 for fibromyalgia could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Lyrica (pregabalin), marketed by Pfizer, Cymbalta (duloxetine), marketed by Eli Lilly, and Savella (milnacipran), marketed by Forest Laboratories, were approved by the FDA in June 2007, June 2008, and January 2009, respectively, for the treatment of fibromyalgia. With treatments for fibromyalgia already approved, the FDA may be less willing to approve JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. There are currently no approved fibromyalgia treatments in the European Union. We cannot be sure that the EMEA will approve any treatment, or JZP-6 in particular, for fibromyalgia. For example, in October 2008 a panel of European regulators recommended against approving Cymbalta as a treatment for fibromyalgia. Even if the FDA approves JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia, the FDA may require us to have a REMS similar to the one we use for Xyrem. Under the Xyrem REMS, Xyrem must be distributed through a single central pharmacy. The central pharmacy must maintain physician and patient registries, and the product may not be stocked in retail pharmacies. Each physician and patient must be educated about the risks and benefits of the product before the physician can prescribe, or a patient can receive, Xyrem. Whenever a prescription is received by the central pharmacy, the central pharmacy must verify the prescription and obtain additional information by contacting the patient’s insurance company. The central pharmacy must also speak with the patient before it can ship any Xyrem to the patient. The central pharmacy must ship the product directly to the patient by a courier service, and the patient or his/her designee must sign for the package. The initial shipment may only be for a one month supply, and physicians may only prescribe up to six months of supply of Xyrem. The Xyrem REMS is labor intensive, complex and expensive to operate. Since Xyrem is currently prescribed for a relatively small number of patients, the Xyrem REMS does not prevent us from effectively supplying Xyrem to narcolepsy patients. However, significantly more patients are diagnosed with fibromyalgia, and if the same or a similar REMS is required for JZP-6, scale-up of the REMS could make it difficult for us to timely supply all of the patients who may be prescribed JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. This could make JZP-6 less attractive to physicians and patients than other products that may be approved for the treatment of fibromyalgia, which could limit potential sales of JZP-6. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their legal and regulatory obligations, as well as their contractual obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We design the clinical trials for our product candidates, but rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management. We do not control these third parties and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as their highest priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays. Although we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The FDA enforces good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we, our contract research organizations or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing 26 Table of Contents applications. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the FDA’s cGMP regulations. Our failure, or the failure of our contract manufacturers, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements. If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. We depend upon UCB to market and promote Xyrem outside the U.S., and we are dependent upon our collaboration with UCB for the development and potential commercialization of JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia in major markets outside of the U.S. We have exclusively licensed to UCB the rights to market and promote Xyrem in 54 countries outside of the U.S. If UCB does not obtain regulatory approvals for and launch Xyrem in its licensed countries in the time frames we expect, or at all, our revenues would be adversely affected. If UCB terminates its relationship with us, we would need to find another party or parties to commercialize Xyrem in UCB’s licensed territories. We may be unable to find another party or parties on acceptable terms, or at all, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, under the terms of our collaboration with UCB, we granted UCB the exclusive right to commercialize JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia in the same territories that UCB has the right to market and promote Xyrem for patients with narcolepsy. We have relied in part on milestone payments from UCB to offset our development costs of JZP-6. UCB has the right to terminate our collaboration on 12-months’ notice (or less in certain circumstances), and UCB may terminate its rights to JZP-6 for the fibromyalgia indication on six-months’ notice at any time prior to the receipt of marketing approval of JZP-6 for fibromyalgia in the European Union. If UCB terminates our collaboration or terminates its rights to JZP-6 for the fibromyalgia indication, we would need to find another party or parties to commercialize JZP-6 in UCB’s territories and may need to execute alternative financing plans to help fund our development of JZP-6. We may be unable to do either of these on acceptable terms, or at all. There are currently no approved fibromyalgia treatments in the European Union. We cannot be sure that the EMEA will approve any treatment, or JZP-6 in particular, for fibromyalgia. For example, a panel of European regulators recently recommended against approving Cymbalta as a treatment for fibromyalgia. We depend on one central pharmacy distributor for Xyrem sales in the U.S. and the loss of that distributor or its failure to distribute Xyrem effectively would adversely affect sales of Xyrem. As a condition of approval of Xyrem, the FDA mandated that we maintain a risk management program for Xyrem under which all Xyrem that we sell in the U.S. must be shipped directly to patients through a central pharmacy. The process under which patients receive Xyrem under our Xyrem REMS is cumbersome. While we have an agreement with the central pharmacy for Xyrem, Express Scripts, if the central pharmacy does not fulfill its contractual obligations to us, or refuses or fails to adequately serve patients, shipments of Xyrem, and our sales, would be adversely affected. Changing central pharmacy distributors could take a significant amount of time. In addition, sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem, is regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, as a controlled substance. The new central pharmacy would need to be registered with the DEA and would also need to develop the particular processes, procedures and activities necessary to distribute Xyrem, including the REMS approved by the FDA. If we change central pharmacies, new contracts might also be required with government and other insurers who pay for Xyrem. Transitioning to a new central pharmacy could result in product shortages, which would adversely affect sales of Xyrem in the U.S. Our supplier of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and our product manufacturer for Xyrem must obtain DEA quotas in order to supply us with Xyrem, JZP-6 and sodium oxybate, and these quotas may not be sufficient to satisfy our clinical and commercial needs. The DEA limits the quantity of certain Schedule I and II controlled substances that may be produced in the U.S. in any given calendar year through a quota system. Because the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Xyrem and JZP-6, sodium oxybate, is a Schedule I controlled substance, our supplier of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and our product manufacturers must obtain DEA quotas in order to supply us with sodium oxybate, Xyrem and JZP-6. Since the DEA typically grants quotas on an annual basis and requires a detailed submission and justification for each request, obtaining a DEA quota is a difficult and time consuming process. If our commercial or clinical requirements for sodium oxybate, Xyrem or JZP-6 exceed our supplier’s and contract manufacturer’s DEA quotas, our supplier and contract manufacturer would need quota increases from the DEA, which could be difficult and time consuming to obtain and might not ultimately be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. In cooperation with our manufacturing partners, we sought and received significant increases in their 2007 quotas from the DEA for sodium oxybate, Xyrem and JZP-6 to satisfy the forecasted demand for Xyrem and to conduct our clinical studies of JZP-6. We did not succeed in obtaining the entire quota we requested for 2007. The quota our suppliers received from the DEA for 2008 was greater than what was issued for 2007, but was less 27 Table of Contents than what we requested for 2008. We believe, although we cannot assure you, that our quota for 2009 will be sufficient to meet our commercial, clinical and development needs. In the future and in cooperation with our procurement and manufacturing partners, we will continue to seek increased quotas to satisfy our clinical and commercial needs. However, we may not be successful in obtaining increased quotas from the DEA, and without sufficient DEA quotas, there could be shortages of Xyrem or sodium oxybate for the marketplace or for use in our clinical studies, or both. We depend on single source suppliers and manufacturers for each of our products and product candidates. The loss of any of these suppliers or manufacturers, or delays or problems in the supply or manufacture of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We do not have, and do not intend to establish in the near term, our own manufacturing or packaging capability for our products or product candidates, or their active pharmaceutical ingredients. Accordingly, we have entered into manufacturing and supply agreements with single source suppliers and manufacturers for our commercialized products and product candidates. The recent deterioration in worldwide economic conditions and the recent disruption to the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide may materially and adversely impact the financial position of our single source suppliers and manufacturers. If our suppliers and contract manufacturers are unable to obtain the necessary capital to operate their respective businesses or for other reasons, our suppliers and contract manufacturers may not be able to manufacture our products or product candidates without interruption, or may not comply with their obligations to us under our supply and manufacturing arrangements. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach and their failure to supply us could result in a shortage of our products or product candidates. The availability of our products for commercial sale is dependent upon our ability to procure the ingredients, packaging materials and finished products we need. If one of our suppliers or product manufacturers fails or refuses to supply us for any reason, it would take a significant amount of time and expense to qualify a new supplier or manufacturer. The loss of one of our suppliers or product manufacturers could require us to obtain regulatory clearance in the form of a “prior approval supplement” and to incur validation and other costs associated with the transfer of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or product manufacturing process. We believe that it could take as long as two years to qualify a new supplier or manufacturer, and we may not be able to obtain active pharmaceutical ingredients, packaging materials or finished products from new suppliers or manufacturers on acceptable terms and at reasonable prices, or at all. Should we lose either an active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier or a product manufacturer, we could run out of salable product to meet market demands or investigational product for use in clinical trials while we wait for FDA approval of a new active pharmaceutical ingredient supplier or product manufacturer. For Xyrem, JZP-6 or sodium oxybate, the new supplier or manufacturer would also need to be registered with the DEA and obtain a DEA quota. In addition, the FDA must approve suppliers of the active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products, as well as suppliers of finished products. The qualification of new suppliers and manufacturers could potentially delay the manufacture of our products and product candidates and result in shortages in the marketplace or for our clinical trials, or both, particularly since we do not have secondary sources of supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or backup manufacturers for our products and product candidates. If there are delays in qualifying the new manufacturer or the new manufacturer is unable to obtain a sufficient quota from the DEA, there could be a shortage of Xyrem for the marketplace. Due to FDA-mandated dating requirements, the limited market size for our approved products and DEA quotas relating to sodium oxybate, Xyrem and JZP-6, we are subject to complex manufacturing logistics and minimum order quantities that could result in excess inventory as determined under our accounting policy, unsalable inventory as a result of product expiring prior to use, and competition with others for manufacturing services when needed or expected. We have adopted a production planning program to assess and manage manufacturing logistics among the vendors supplying our requirements of active pharmaceutical ingredient, drug product and packaging; however, unexpected market requirements or problems with vendors’ facilities, among other things, could result in shortages of one or more of our products for the marketplace or product candidates for use in our clinical studies, or both. Lonza is our sole supplier of sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem and, through Solvay, for fluvoxamine maleate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Luvox CR. We expect Lonza will continue to be our sole supplier of sodium oxybate and fluvoxamine maleate for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that Lonza can or will continue to supply, in the time we need, sufficient quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredient to enable Elan and Patheon to manufacture the quantities of Luvox CR and Xyrem, respectively, that we need. Elan has the right and obligation to manufacture the worldwide commercial requirements of Luvox CR. In June 2001, Solvay’s NDA for Luvox CR was withdrawn due to manufacturing difficulties. We cannot assure you that Elan will be able to continue to supply in a timely manner or at all our ongoing commercial needs of Luvox CR. Any failure of Elan to supply necessary quantities of Luvox CR could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 28 Table of Contents Failure by our third party manufacturers to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect their ability to supply products to us. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with cGMP requirements. In complying with cGMP requirements, our suppliers must continually expend time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that our products and product candidates meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality. DEA regulations also govern facilities where controlled substances such as sodium oxybate are manufactured. Manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA and other regulatory authorities, including state authorities. Failure to comply with applicable legal requirements subjects the suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including shutdown, which may adversely affect their ability to supply us with the ingredients or finished products we need. Any delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products by any of our suppliers could result in our inability to meet the commercial demand for our products or our needs for use in clinical trials, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. For example, if Lonza is unable to timely provide fluvoxamine maleate in the quantities we need there could be an interruption in the supply of Luvox CR to the market. In addition, under our agreement with UCB, we are responsible for the supply of Xyrem and, if approved, JZP-6 to UCB. Our failure to meet our contractual obligations to supply UCB with adequate quantities of Xyrem and JZP-6 would result in lost revenues to us and, if material, could result in termination of our agreements by UCB. The commercial success of our products depends upon attaining market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community. Even if our product candidates are approved for sale by the appropriate regulatory authorities, physicians may not prescribe our products, in which case we would not generate the revenues we anticipate. Market acceptance of any of our products by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community depends on: • the clinical indications for which a product is approved; • prevalence of the disease or condition for which the product is approved and the severity of side effects; • acceptance by physicians and patients of each product as a safe and effective treatment; • perceived advantages over alternative treatments; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including generic products; • the extent to which the product is approved for inclusion on formularies of hospitals and managed care organizations; and • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties. As an example, sales of Luvox CR have been significantly less than we had anticipated at the time of the acquisition of the rights to this product and prior to its launch in the first quarter of 2008. A failure to prove that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials would require us to discontinue their development, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Significant additional research and development, financial resources and additional personnel will be required to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our product candidates and to develop them into commercially viable products. As a condition to regulatory approval, each product candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials to demonstrate to a statistically significant degree that the product candidate is safe and effective. The clinical trials for a product candidate can cost between $40 million and $100 million, and potentially even more. If a product candidate fails at any stage of development, we will not have the anticipated revenues from that product candidate to fund our operations, and we will not receive any return on our investment in that product candidate. Clinical testing can take many years to complete, and failure can occur any time during the clinical trial process. In addition, the results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed successfully through initial clinical testing. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in earlier clinical trials. The completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed or halted for many reasons, including: • delays in patient enrollment, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence or continue a clinical trial; • our inability, or the inability of our partners, to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient to complete our clinical trials; 29 Table of Contents • delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; • risks associated with trial design, which may result in a failure of the trial to show statistically significant results even if the product candidate is effective; • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment commences, resulting in incomplete data; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • safety issues, including adverse events associated with product candidates; • the failure of patients to complete clinical trials due to adverse side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons; • governmental or regulatory delays or changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; • varying interpretation of data by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies; and • insufficient funds to complete the trials. In addition, our product candidates are subject to competition for clinical study sites and patients from other therapies under development that may delay the enrollment in or initiation of our clinical trials. Many of these companies have far greater financial and human resources than we do. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may require us to conduct unanticipated additional clinical trials, which could result in additional expense and delays in bringing our product candidates to market. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We could be materially adversely affected if we or our products are subject to negative publicity. For example, sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem and JZP-6, is a derivative of gamma hydroxybutyrate, or GHB, which has been a drug of abuse and may not be sold legally in the U.S. If physicians and patients perceive Xyrem and JZP-6 to be the same as or similar to GHB or if adverse effects become associated with our products, sales of our products could be adversely affected. From time to time, there is negative publicity about illicit GHB and its effects, including with respect to illegal use, overdoses, serious injury and death and because sodium oxybate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem, is a derivative of GHB, Xyrem sometimes also receives negative mention in publicity relating to GHB. Because sodium oxybate is a derivative of GHB, patients, physicians and regulators may view Xyrem as the same as or similar to illicit GHB. In addition, there are regulators and some law enforcement agencies that oppose the prescription and use of Xyrem generally because of the connection to GHB. Xyrem’s label includes information about adverse events from GHB, and we anticipate that if JZP-6 is approved, its label will include similar information. We could also be adversely affected if any of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies prove to be, or are asserted to be, harmful to consumers. Because of our dependence upon patient and physician perceptions, any adverse publicity associated with illness or other adverse effects resulting from the use or misuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York concerning the sales and marketing of Xyrem creates additional compliance-related operating costs and could result in additional fines, penalties or other adverse consequences. In April 2006, we and our subsidiary Orphan Medical received subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice, acting through the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, in connection with the sale and marketing of Xyrem. We and Orphan Medical have settled this matter with the U.S., acting through the Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York and other federal agencies, including the Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Orphan Medical pled guilty to one felony count of introducing a misbranded drug into interstate commerce. A total of approximately $20.0 million in civil and criminal payments is required to be paid in connection with this matter, of which $1.0 million was paid in July 2007, $2.0 million was paid in January 2008, and $2.5 million is due in October 2009; the remaining will be due over the next three years. While we were not prosecuted, as part of the settlement we entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. That agreement requires us to maintain a comprehensive compliance program, and we will have additional ongoing compliance-related operating costs related to this compliance program and the corporate integrity agreement. In the event of an uncured material breach or deliberate violation, as the case may be, of the corporate integrity agreement or the other definitive settlement agreements we entered into, we could be excluded from participation in Federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution. 30 Table of Contents In addition, there is no assurance that we will not be subject to future investigations. Many pharmaceutical companies have announced government investigations of their sales and marketing practices for many of their products. Even with compliance training and a company culture of compliance, our current or future practices may nonetheless become the subject of an investigation. A number of laws, often referred to as “whistleblower” statutes, provide for financial rewards to employees and others for bringing to the attention of the government sales and marketing practices that the government views as illegal or fraudulent. The costs of investigating any claims, responding to subpoenas of investigators, and any resulting fines, can be significant and could divert the attention of our management from operating our business. Xyrem cannot be advertised in the same manner as competing products, which could limit sales. The FDA has required that Xyrem’s label include a box warning regarding the risk of abuse. A box warning is the strongest type of warning that the FDA can require for a drug product and warns prescribers that the drug carries a significant risk of serious or even life-threatening adverse effects. A box warning also means, among other things, that the product cannot be advertised through reminder ads, ads which mention the pharmaceutical brand name but not the indication or medical condition it treats. Provigil, the only other product approved by the FDA specifically for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy, does not have a box warning and can be advertised with reminder ads. In addition, Xyrem’s type of FDA approval under the FDA’s Subpart H regulations requires that all of the promotional materials for Xyrem be provided to the FDA for review at least 30 days prior to the intended time of first use. Unlike Xyrem, Provigil was not approved under the FDA’s Subpart H regulations and is not subject to the pre-review requirements. Accordingly, promotional materials for Provigil are not subject to the same delays that we experience with respect to new promotional materials for Xyrem. Since JZP-6 contains the same active pharmaceutical ingredient as Xyrem, we anticipate that the label for JZP-6, if approved by the FDA, will also include a box warning. The FDA has approved products for the treatment of fibromyalgia. One of these products is not, and future competing products may not be, subject to this restriction, and the box warning may negatively affect potential JZP-6 sales if competing products can be advertised directly to consumers. We face substantial competition from companies with greater resources than we have. With respect to all of our existing and future products, we may compete with companies selling or working to develop products that may be more effective, safer or less costly than our products. The markets for which we are developing products are competitive and include generic and branded products, some of which are marketed by major pharmaceutical companies that have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing and selling approved products than we do. While Xyrem is the only product approved by the FDA for the treatment of both excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, cataplexy is often treated with tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, although none of these compounds has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of cataplexy. Other treatments for excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy consist primarily of stimulants and wakefulness promoting agents, including Provigil (modafinil), the only other FDA-approved product for the treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy. We are marketing Luvox CR in the U.S. for the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder and social anxiety disorder. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are the standard treatment for anxiety disorders, including obsessive compulsive disorder and social anxiety disorder. Six other branded products are currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder, including five selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: Paxil, which is marketed by GlaxoSmithKline, Zoloft, which is marketed by Pfizer, Prozac, which is marketed by Eli Lilly, Pexeva, which is a branded generic marketed by Noven Therapeutics and Luvox, which is not currently marketed. Anafranil, the sixth other branded product approved by the FDA for the treatment of obsessive compulsive disorder, is a tricyclic antidepressant marketed by Mallinckrodt in the U.S. Each of these products currently has generic equivalents. Generic products are generally sold at significantly lower prices than non-generic branded products, tending to both take market share away from branded products and put downward pricing pressure on branded products. Four other products are currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of social anxiety disorder, including three selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: Zoloft, Paxil and Paxil CR, an extended-release version of Paxil, and one serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, Effexor XR. Each of these products have generic competitors. We are developing JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia. In June 2007, the FDA approved Lyrica, an anticonvulsant marketed by Pfizer for the treatment of partial seizures, post herpetic neuralgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, for the treatment of fibromyalgia. In June 2008, the FDA approved Cymbalta, a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor marketed by Eli Lilly for the treatment of major depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder, and diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, for the treatment of fibromyalgia. In January 2009, the FDA approved Savella, a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor marketed by Forest Laboratories for the treatment of fibromyalgia. There are currently no other products approved by the FDA for the treatment of fibromyalgia. In clinical practice, a variety of drugs are often prescribed to address individual symptoms of fibromyalgia, including antidepressants, pain medications, muscle relaxants, hypnotics and anticonvulsants. 31 Table of Contents Smaller or earlier stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with other large, established companies. Our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize generic or branded products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our products. In addition, we have undertaken several cost-cutting measures that may affect our ability to compete with other companies and due to our financial condition we may be required to take additional cost-cutting measures in the future. Our competitors may obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we may. For example, other major pharmaceutical companies have completed or we believe are close to completing Phase III clinical trials of product candidates for the treatment of fibromyalgia, and these are large pharmaceutical companies with far greater resources than we have. Three of these product candidates have received FDA approval and have already reached the market. These treatments, as well as other product candidates that may reach the market before JZP-6, may be better accepted by physicians and patients. Thus, even if we successfully complete our Phase III pivotal clinical trials for JZP-6 for the treatment of fibromyalgia and achieve FDA approval, JZP-6 may not result in significant commercial revenues for us. Our competitors may market their products more effectively than we do. If we are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, our products are preferable to other therapies, we may not generate meaningful revenues from the sales of our products. If generic products that compete with any of our products are approved, sales of our products may be adversely affected. Our products are or may become subject to competition from generic equivalents because there is no proprietary protection for some of our products or because our protection has expired or is not sufficiently broad. The FDA has granted orphan drug exclusivity for Xyrem until July 2009 for cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, and until November 2012 for excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy. Once our orphan drug exclusivity periods for Xyrem expire, other companies could introduce generic equivalents of Xyrem if the generic equivalents do not infringe our existing patents covering Xyrem. Once our orphan drug exclusivity period for Xyrem for the treatment of cataplexy expires in July 2009, prescriptions for Xyrem for excessive daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy, or if approved by the FDA, JZP-6, could possibly be filled with generic equivalents that have been approved for the treatment of cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy, even if the patient is diagnosed with excessive daytime sleepiness or fibromyalgia. Patent protection is not available for the active pharmaceutical ingredient in most of our products and product candidates, including Xyrem, Luvox CR and JZP-6. Although Xyrem is covered by patents expiring in 2019 and 2020 with claims covering the formula and process for manufacturing our commercial formulation of Xyrem and Luvox CR is covered by a patent covering the orally administered formulation of extended-release fluvoxamine, it is possible that other companies could manufacture generic equivalents of Xyrem and Luvox CR in ways that are not covered by the claims of these patents. Part of our business strategy includes the ongoing development of proprietary product improvements to Xyrem, including new and enhanced dosage forms. However, we may not be successful in developing or obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of these improvements. Although the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Xyrem and JZP-6 is a DEA scheduled compound for which a quota is required and the FDA has required a REMS for its distribution, and therefore generic competition may be more difficult and expensive than it might be for other products not requiring a similar REMS for distribution, our competitors will not be prevented from introducing a generic equivalent. We have filed a patent application with claims covering the method for distributing sodium oxybate using a centralized distribution system, but we cannot assure you that this patent will issue or, if issued, whether it will provide any significant protection of Xyrem from generic competition. Luvox CR is covered by a patent owned by Elan with claims covering the orally administered extended-release formulation of fluvoxamine. It is possible that other companies could manufacture similar or therapeutically equivalent products in ways that are not covered by the claims of the patent. There may be other patents that we are not aware of that cover some aspect of the Luvox CR formulation and that would prevent us from continuing to commercialize Luvox CR or that would require us to pay royalties or other forms of consideration. After the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the prescriptions written for a product generally may be filled with the generic version at the pharmacy, resulting in a loss in sales of the branded product, including for indications for which the generic version has not been approved for marketing by the FDA. Generic competition often results in decreases in the prices at which branded products can be sold. In addition, legislation enacted in the U.S. allows for, and in a few instances in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician mandates, the use of generic products rather than branded products where a generic equivalent is available. Generic competition for our products earlier than expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We may not be able to successfully acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates to grow our business. In order to grow our business, we will need to acquire or in-license additional products and product candidates that we believe have significant commercial potential. We do not believe we will be able to acquire or in-license additional products and product candidates until our financial condition improves. Any growth through acquisitions or in-licensing will be dependent upon the 32 Table of Contents continued availability of suitable acquisition or in-license products and product candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Even if such opportunities are present, we may not be able to successfully identify products or product candidates suitable for potential acquisition or in-licensing, or we may not have the financial resources necessary to pursue such opportunities. Other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, compete with us for the right to acquire and in-license such products or product candidates. We currently have a relatively small sales organization compared with most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products. If our specialty sales force and sales organization is not appropriately sized to adequately promote our current and potential future products, the commercial opportunity for our products may be diminished. In November 2008, we reduced the size of our sales force as a result of the lower than expected demand for Luvox CR. Each of our remaining sales representatives is now responsible for a larger territory than he or she was responsible for prior to the reduction in force. We cannot predict if the smaller sales force will be effective at promoting our commercial products or if having a smaller sales force will negatively affect sales. Our potential future commercial products, including JZP-6, may require expansion of our sales force and sales support organization, and we will need to commit significant additional management and other resources to the growth of our sales organization before the commercial launch of those product candidates. We may not be able to achieve the necessary growth in a cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on our investment. We also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel. Turnover in our sales force could negatively affect sales of our products. If we elect to rely on third parties to sell our products in the U.S., we may receive less revenue or incur more expense than if we sold our products directly. In addition, we may have little or no control over the sales efforts of those third parties. If we are unable to appropriately size our sales force or collaborate with third parties to sell our products, our ability to generate revenues would be adversely affected. If we fail to retain key personnel, or to retain our executive management team, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our products. Our success depends in part on our continued ability to retain and motivate highly qualified personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. We are highly dependent upon our executive management team. The loss of services of any one or more members of our executive management team or other key personnel could delay or prevent the successful completion of some of our key activities. We do not carry “key person” insurance. Any member of our executive management team and any other key employees may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice and without cause or good reason. In December 2008, Matthew K. Fust, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, left the company and we have not filled this position. In June 2008, we reduced the number of non-sales employees in our company in connection with efforts to focus, in the near term, on our commercial products and later-stage product candidates. In November 2008, we significantly reduced the number of sales representatives. In December 2008, we further reduced the number of non-sales employees in our company. These reductions in force may negatively affect our ability to retain or attract talented employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the life sciences industry remains intense. If we need to hire additional personnel to expand our development, clinical and commercial activities, or to support those activities, we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. Our current financial uncertainty adds to the risk of our loss of or our inability to recruit needed employees. If we need to accelerate our activities or expand our business, and cannot recruit qualified employees when we need them, our key activities could be delayed. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our products and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage our personnel resources effectively, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our offices are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities, which could adversely affect our operations. Our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, near known earthquake fault zones and are therefore vulnerable to damage from earthquake. In October 1989, a major earthquake in our area caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other disasters such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If a significant disaster occurs, our ability to continue our operations could be seriously impaired and we may not have adequate insurance to cover any resulting losses. Any significant unrecoverable losses could seriously impair our operations and financial conditions. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection of our product candidates, their use and the methods used to manufacture them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. Our ability to protect our product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, or have trade secrets that cover these activities. The patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Even if we are able to obtain patents covering our products and product candidates, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. The existence of a patent will not necessarily prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products or protect us from claims of third parties that our products infringe their issued patents, which may require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties. Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar products that do not infringe our patents, or manufacture products in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that do not respect our patents. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents, our licensed patents or in third party patents. The degree of future protection to be afforded by our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • others may be able to make products that are similar to our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our patents, or for which we are not licensed under our license agreements; • we or our licensors or partners might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or the pending patent applications or issued patents of our licensors or partners; • we or our licensors or partners might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative products without infringing our intellectual property rights; • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or partners may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; • we may not develop additional proprietary products that are patentable; or • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business. We also may rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information, our employees, consultants, advisors and partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors, and we may not have adequate remedies for such disclosures. If our employees, consultants, advisors and partners develop inventions or processes independently, or jointly with us, that may be applicable to our products under development, disputes may arise about ownership or proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our inventions or trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside of the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information to which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. While the ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to contractual limitations, these contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication, or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our innovations and other confidential information, then our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized. Moreover, a dispute may arise with our research and development collaborators over the ownership of rights to jointly developed intellectual property. Such disputes, if not successfully resolved, could lead to a loss of rights and possibly prevent us from pursuing certain new products or product candidates. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or commercialize, our products. 34 Table of Contents Our ability, and that of our partners, to commercialize any approved products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We have filed multiple U.S. patent applications and foreign counterparts, and may file additional U.S. and foreign patent applications related thereto. There can be no assurance that any issued patents we own or control will provide sufficient protection to conduct our business as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted. Moreover, in part because of prior research performed and patent applications submitted in the same manner or similar fields, there can be no assurance that any patents will issue from the patent applications owned by us, or that we will remain free from infringement claims by third parties. If we choose to go to court to stop someone else from pursuing the inventions claimed in our patents or in or our licensed patents or those of our partners, that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that the other party’s activities do not infringe our rights to these patents or that it is in the public interest to permit the infringing activity. A third party may claim that we or our manufacturing or commercialization partners are using inventions covered by the third party’s patent rights and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our products. Patent infringement lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of management and development personnel. There is a risk that a court could decide that we or our partners are infringing third party patent rights. In the event that we or our partners are found to infringe any valid claim of a patent held by a third party, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use and sale of our products that infringe the patent rights of others through a court-imposed sanction such as an injunction; • expend significant resources to redesign our products so they do not infringe others’ patent rights, which may not be possible; • discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; or • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The pharmaceutical and life sciences industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents in the U.S. Because some patent applications in the U.S. may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for inventions covered by our licensors’ or our issued patents or pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first inventors. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering subject matter similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors’ patents or applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such subject matter. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the U.S. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Risks Related to Our Industry The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, selling and marketing of pharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by FDA and other regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other countries, and regulations differ from country to country. Approval in the U.S., or in any jurisdiction, does not ensure approval in other jurisdictions. The regulatory approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and we may be unable to obtain approval for our products. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the U.S. until we receive approval from the FDA, generally of an NDA. An NDA must contain, among other things, data to demonstrate that the drug is safe and effective for its intended uses and that it will be manufactured to appropriate quality standards. Obtaining 35 Table of Contents approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject our company to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including warning letters, untitled letters, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, product seizure or detention, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize them and recoup our research and development costs. Earlier in 2008, the FDA announced that, in light of staffing issues, it has given its managers discretion to miss Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, deadlines for completing reviews of NDAs. If the FDA were to miss a PDUFA deadline for one of our products, delaying the approval and launch, the delay could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing significant regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products. If we receive regulatory approvals to sell our products, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our products, or impose requirements for burdensome post-approval study commitments. The terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the marketability of the product or otherwise reduce the size of the potential market for that product. Following any regulatory approval of our products, we will be subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products. In addition, if the FDA approves any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with any of our products in the U.S. or overseas or at our contract manufacturers’ facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on our products, our contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our products, implement changes to, or obtain re-approvals of, our contract manufacturers’ facilities, or withdraw the product from the market. In addition, we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products and our product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. The FDA and other governmental authorities also actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the DEA, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which we commercialize our products. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. Our manufacturing partners are subject to the same requirements, which include obtaining sufficient quota from the DEA each year to manufacture sodium oxybate Xyrem and JZP-6. These statutes and regulations include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting identified common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the company’s marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. Pharmaceutical and other health care companies have also been prosecuted on other legal theories of Medicare fraud. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply 36 Table of Contents regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a company’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Several states now require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and the reporting of gifts to individual physicians in the states. Other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies. In addition, California requires pharmaceutical companies to implement a comprehensive compliance program that includes a limit on expenditures for or payments to individual prescribers. Currently, several additional states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If we or any of our partners fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or our partners’ ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We participate in the federal Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as well as several state supplemental rebate programs. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our products that are reimbursed by those programs. The minimum amount of the rebate for each unit of product is set by law at 15.1% of the average manufacturing price of that product, or if it is greater, the difference between the average manufacturing price and the best price we make available to any customer. The rebate amount also includes an inflation adjustment, if necessary. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services of our current average manufacturing price and best prices for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for prior quarters was incorrect, or changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected average manufacturing price or best price for that quarter. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. In addition to retroactive rebates (and interest, if any), if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program extend comparable discounts to qualified purchasers under the Public Health Services’ pharmaceutical pricing program requiring us to sell our products at prices lower than we otherwise might be able to charge. The Public Health Services pricing program extends discounts comparable to the Medicaid rebates to a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Services, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor patients and children. Reimbursement may not be available for our products, which could diminish our sales or affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both U.S. and foreign markets, our ability to commercialize our products successfully, and to attract strategic partners for our products, depends in significant part on the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third party payors, including, in the U.S., governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations and private health insurers. Third party payors decide which drugs they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. In some cases, for example, third party payors try to encourage the use of less expensive generic products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement policies. We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Even with studies, our products may be considered less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than existing products, and third party payors may not provide coverage and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part. We cannot predict actions third party payors may take, or whether they will limit the coverage and level of reimbursement for our products or refuse to provide any coverage at all. For example, because Luvox CR is competing in a market with both branded and generic products, reimbursement by government and private payors may be more challenging than for new chemical entities. We cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to effectively commercialize our products. 37 Table of Contents There have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals in recent years to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. These proposals include prescription drug benefit proposals for Medicare beneficiaries and measures that would limit or prohibit payments for some medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit that became effective in January 2006, and mandates other reforms. Although we cannot predict the full effect on our business of the implementation of this new legislation, it is possible that the new benefit, which is managed by private health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for prescription drugs. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. Currently, there are legislative proposals that would permit the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies to obtain lower prices for drugs covered under Medicare Part D. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. If we fail to successfully secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficulty achieving market acceptance of our products and our business will be harmed. During the recent presidential election campaign, the candidates discussed healthcare reform proposals which, if enacted, could adversely affect the pharmaceutical industry as a whole, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales of our products in the U.S. may be adversely affected by consolidation among wholesale drug distributors and the growth of large retail drug store chains. The market participants to whom we sell Luvox CR, and the market participants to whom we expect to sell most of our future products, have undergone significant consolidation, marked by mergers and acquisitions among wholesale distributors and the growth of large retail drugstore chains. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market, and the number of independent drug stores and small drugstore chains has decreased. In addition, excess inventory levels held by large distributors can lead to periodic and unanticipated reductions in our revenues and cash flows. Consolidation of drug wholesalers and retailers, as well as any increased pricing pressure that those entities face from their customers, including the U.S. government, may increase pricing pressure and place other competitive pressures on drug manufacturers, including us. Prescription drug importation from Canada and other countries could increase pricing pressure on our products and could decrease our revenues and profit margins. Under current U.S. law, there is a general prohibition on imports of unapproved products. The FDA has published internal guidance that sets forth the agency’s enforcement priorities for imported drugs. Under this policy, the FDA allows its personnel to use their discretion in permitting entry into the U.S. of personal use quantities of FDA-regulated products in personal baggage and mail when the product does not present an unreasonable risk to the user. Thus, individuals may import prescription drugs that are unavailable in the U.S. from Canada and other countries for their personal use under specified circumstances. Other imports, although illegal under U.S. law, also enter the country as a result of the resource constraints and enforcement priorities of the FDA and the U.S. Customs Services. In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 will permit pharmacists and wholesalers to import prescription drugs into the U.S. from Canada under specified circumstances. These additional import provisions will not take effect until the Secretary of Health and Human Services makes a required certification regarding the safety and cost savings of imported drugs and the FDA has promulgated regulations setting forth parameters for importation. These conditions have not been met to date and the law has therefore not taken effect. However, legislative proposals have been introduced to remove these conditions and implement changes to the current import laws, or to create other changes that would allow foreign versions of our products priced at lower levels than in the U.S. to be imported or reimported to the U.S. from Canada, Europe and other countries. In addition, there have been indications that the new presidential administration is considering changing certain rules to make it easier to import drugs from other countries, and we cannot predict what, if any changes will happen. If these provisions or changes in the rules take effect, the volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase significantly and our products could face competition from lower priced imports. Even if these provisions do not take effect and alter current law, the volume of prescription drug imports from Canada and elsewhere could increase due to a variety of factors, including the further spread of internet pharmacies and actions by a number of state and local governments to facilitate Canadian and other imports. These imports may harm our business. We licensed Xyrem to Valeant to distribute in Canada. Due to government price regulation in Canada, products are generally sold in Canada for lower prices than in the U.S. Due to the REMS for Xyrem and our agreement with Valeant, we believe that it is unlikely that Xyrem will be imported from Canada to the U.S. Luvox CR is not approved in Canada. 38 Table of Contents Product liability and product recalls could harm our business. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products entail significant risk of product liability claims or recalls. Our products and product candidates are designed to affect important bodily functions and processes. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, the products sold by us could result in exacerbation of a patient’s condition, further deterioration of a patient’s condition or even death. This could result in product liability claims and/or recalls of one or more of our products. For example, studies and publications suggest that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Luvox CR and its immediate release formulation Luvox, may increase the risk of suicidal behavior in adults and adolescents. In addition, the current selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor products used to treat obsessive compulsive disorder and social anxiety disorder, particularly those formulated for immediate release, all have significant adverse side effects. Side effects associated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors include sexual dysfunction, adverse drug interaction and risk of hypertension. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by groups seeking to represent a class. While we have not had to defend against any product liability claims to date, as sales of our products increase, we believe it is likely product liability claims will be made against us. We cannot predict the frequency, outcome or cost to defend any such claims. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Partly as a result of product liability lawsuits related to pharmaceutical products, product liability and other types of insurance have become more difficult and costly for pharmaceutical companies to obtain. Our product liability insurance may not cover all of the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully. In addition, defending a product liability lawsuit is expensive and can divert the attention of key employees from operating our business. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of our suppliers, government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales. Any recall of our products could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time and by adversely affecting our reputation. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and the value of your investment could decline significantly. Our stock has a very low average trading volume and our stockholders may not be able to sell any or all of their holdings quickly or at all. If we were to file for bankruptcy protection, it is likely that our common stock would have little or no value. The stock market in general and the market for life sciences companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Investors who purchase our common stock may not be able to sell their shares at or above the purchase price. The following factors, in addition to other risks described herein, may have a significant effect on our common stock market price: • our financial situation, including our default under our senior notes; • our ability or inability to raise additional capital in early 2009 and the terms on which we raise it; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical industry, the credit and financial markets or the U.S. and worldwide economy in general; • the success of Luvox CR in the U.S.; • the success of our development efforts and clinical trials, including in particular with respect to JZP-6; • negative publicity concerning one of our products or product candidates; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates, or specific label indications for their use, or delays in the FDA review process; • the failure or delay by the DEA in providing sufficient quotas for sodium oxybate, Xyrem or JZP-6; 39 Table of Contents • actual or expected fluctuations in our operating results, including as a result of fluctuating demand for our commercial products as a result of purchases by wholesalers in connection with product launches, stockpiling or inventory drawdowns by our customers, or otherwise; • changes in the market prices for our products; • the success of our efforts to acquire or in-license additional products or product candidates; • introductions and announcements of new products by us, our commercialization partners, or our competitors, and the timing of these introductions or announcements; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements of product innovations by us, our partners or our competitors; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our products, clinical trials, manufacturing process or sales and marketing terms; • developments concerning our collaborations, including but not limited to those with our sources of manufacturing supply and our commercialization partners; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our products; • actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally; • actual or expected changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; • changes in the market valuation of similar companies; • trading volume of our common stock; and • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders. Our common stock is currently at risk for delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market. Delisting could adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease, and our ability to obtain adequate financing for the continuation of our operations would be substantially impaired. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, has minimum requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. These requirements include maintaining a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share, and the closing bid price of our common stock on March 20, 2009 was $0.91 per share. These requirements also include maintaining a minimum market value of publicly held shares, and, as of March 20, 2009, we did not meet this minimum requirement. Although NASDAQ has temporarily suspended the minimum closing bid price and minimum market value of publicly held shares requirements until July 20, 2009, there can be no assurance that we will meet these requirements after such date, and it is possible that NASDAQ may notify us prior to July 20, 2009 that we have failed to meet the minimum listing requirements that have not been suspended and initiate the delisting process. If our common stock is delisted, the liquidity of our common stock would be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decrease, and our ability to obtain adequate financing for the continuation of our operations would be substantially impaired. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, we had 28,925,117 shares of common stock outstanding, all of which shares, less shares subject to a repurchase option in our favor tied to the holders’ continued service to us (which will be eligible for sale upon lapse of the repurchase option), were eligible for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to the volume limitations and manner of sale requirements under Rule 144. As of March 20, 2009, the holders of up to approximately 19,306,128 shares of common stock, based on shares outstanding as of that date, including 785,728 shares underlying outstanding warrants, were entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of such shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, under an amended and restated investor rights agreement that we entered into with these holders. In addition, upon exercise of outstanding options by our executive officers, our executive officers will be entitled to rights under the amended and restated investor rights agreement with respect to registration of the shares of common stock acquired on exercise. If such holders, by exercising their registration rights, sell a large number of shares, they could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. If we file a registration statement and include shares held by these holders pursuant to the 40 Table of Contents exercise of their registration rights, these sales may impair our ability to raise capital. On March 17, 2008, we entered into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which we agreed to file a registration statement covering the resale of the 562,192 shares underlying the warrants that we issued in connection with the expansion of our senior secured debt in March 2008. In addition, we have filed registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, to register the shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, and intend to file additional registration statements on Form S-8 to register the shares automatically added each year to the share reserves under these plans. We entered into a committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, on May 7, 2008 with Kingsbridge Capital Limited, or Kingsbridge. The perceived risk of dilution from sales of our common stock to or by Kingsbridge in connection with the CEFF may cause holders of our common stock to sell their shares, or it may encourage short selling by market participants, which could contribute to a decline in our stock price. The registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the CEFF requires that we use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the registration statement in connection with the CEFF remains effective for the term of such agreement. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares of our common stock under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met. These conditions include a minimum trading price of $4.50 for our common stock, and our common stock has recently been trading well below that minimum. Our executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates, own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of March 20, 2009, our executive officers and directors, together with their respective affiliates, beneficially owned 63.3% of our capital stock, of which 6.4% was beneficially owned by our executive officers. Accordingly, our executive officers and directors together with their respective affiliates are able to determine the composition of our board of directors, retain the voting power to approve all matters requiring stockholder approval, including mergers and other business combinations, and continue to have significant influence over our operations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors or management. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC have imposed various requirements on public companies including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Our management and other personnel must continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. For example, we were required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, beginning with this annual report on Form 10-K, and to allow our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we have hired and will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on trading prices for our common stock, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. 41 Table of Contents Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for a change in the composition of our board of directors or management to occur, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • dividing our board of directors into three classes; • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; • eliminating cumulative voting rights and therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares of our common stock to elect all of the directors standing for election, if they should so choose; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our business requires significant funding, and we currently invest more in product development than we earn from sales of our products. In addition, the agreements governing our debt restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently plan to invest all available funds and future earnings in the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 