ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision. If any of the risks below actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document. Risks Relating to Our Diversified Media Business Decreases in advertising spending, resulting from economic downturn, war, terrorism, advertiser consolidation or other factors, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 70% of our revenue in 2008 was generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising appearing in our newspapers and shoppers and for broadcast on our radio and television stations. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns and some advertisers may go out of business or declare bankruptcy. The merger or consolidation of advertisers also generally leads to a reduced amount of collective advertising spending. A recession or economic downturn, as we are currently experiencing, as well as a consolidation of advertisers, has had, and in the future could continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our advertising revenue tends to decline in times of national or local crisis because our radio and television stations broadcast more news coverage and sell less advertising time. For example, the threatened outbreak of hostilities in Iraq in March 2003 and the war itself had a negative impact on our broadcast results due to reduced spending levels by some advertisers, cancellations by some advertisers for the duration of war coverage and elimination of advertising inventory available from our television networks during their continuous coverage of the war. As a result, the war in Iraq, additional terrorist attacks or other wars involving the United States or any other local or national crisis could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some of our printed publications and our radio and television stations generate a large percentage of their advertising revenue from a limited number of sources, including the automotive industry, political advertising and professional sports contracts. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, adverse changes specifically affecting these advertising sources could significantly reduce advertising revenue and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our advertising revenue and circulation revenue depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities that we serve. Changes in those factors could negatively affect those revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores and local economic conditions in general. If the population demographics, prevailing retail environment or local economic conditions of a community served by us were to change adversely, revenue could decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. This is especially true with respect to the metropolitan Milwaukee market, which is served by our daily newspaper, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, one of our television stations, two of our radio stations, a number of our community newspapers and shoppers and about 40 websites, and, collectively, from which we derived approximately 48.1% of our revenue in 2008. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and during a time of rapid competitive changes, we may lose market share and advertising revenue to competing newspapers, radio and television stations or other types of media competitors, as well as through consolidation of media competitors or changes in advertisers’ media buying strategies. Our diversified media businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our newspapers, shoppers, radio stations, television stations and internet sites compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other newspapers, shoppers, radio stations, television stations and internet sites as well as with other media such as magazines, cable television, satellite television, satellite radio, outdoor advertising, direct mail and the evolving 18 on-line advertising space. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, programming and broadcasting resources than we do or, even if smaller, the ability to create on-line niche products and communities and may respond faster or more aggressively to changing competitive dynamics. This competition has intensified as a result of digital media technologies. While the amount of advertising in our internet sites has continued to increase, we have experienced, and in the future may continue to experience, a decrease in advertising revenues if we are unable to attract advertising to our internet sites in volumes and prices sufficient to offset decreases in advertising in our traditional media products, for which rates are generally higher than for internet advertising. In newspapers and shoppers, our revenue primarily consists of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional and national newspapers, shoppers, magazines, broadcast and cable television, radio, direct mail, yellow pages, the internet and other media. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics and circulation levels, while competition for circulation revenue is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality and customer service. On occasion, our businesses compete with each other for regional and local advertising, particularly in the Milwaukee market. Our local and regional competitors in community newspapers and shoppers are typically unique to each market, but we have many competitors for advertising revenue that are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources than us. Circulation revenue and our ability to achieve price increases for our print products are affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in our various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among young people. We may incur increasing costs competing for advertising expenditures and paid circulation. If we are not able to compete effectively for advertising expenditures and paid circulation, our revenue may decline and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our radio and television broadcasting businesses compete for audiences and advertising revenue primarily on the basis of programming content and advertising rates. Our ability to maintain market share and competitive advertising rates depends in part on audience acceptance of our network, syndicated and local programming. Changes in market demographics, the entry of competitive stations to our markets, the introduction of competitive local news or other programming by cable, satellite or other news providers, or the adoption of competitive formats by existing radio stations could result in lower ratings and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in ratings technology or methodology or metrics used by advertisers or other changes in advertisers’ media buying strategies also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, our operations may be adversely affected by consolidation in the broadcast industry, especially if competing stations in our markets are acquired by competitors who have a greater national scope, can offer a greater variety of national and syndicated programming for listeners and viewers and have enhanced opportunities for advertisers to reach broader markets. In 2003 the FCC completed a comprehensive review of its ownership rules and adopted revised rules. These rules were stayed in September 2003 and most of the revised rules were remanded to the FCC for additional analysis and justification. In December 2007, the FCC adopted an Order that modified only the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule to permit cross-ownership of one newspaper and one television or radio station in the top twenty markets under certain circumstances. The FCC declined to make changes to any other broadcast ownership rules. The FCC’s Order is subject to reconsideration and appeal. We cannot predict the outcome of any further administrative or judicial proceedings related to the rules. Seasonal and cyclical changes in advertising volume affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations and may cause our stock price to be volatile. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations are subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations that we expect to continue to affect our results of operations in future periods. Our first quarter of the year tends to be our weakest quarter because advertising volume is typically at its lowest levels following the holiday season. Our 19 fourth quarter tends to be our strongest quarter primarily because of revenue from holiday season advertising. Our quarterly revenue also varies based on the dynamics of the television broadcast industry. In particular, we experience fluctuations, primarily during our third and fourth quarters, during political voting periods as advertising significantly increases. Also, since NBC has exclusive rights to broadcast the Olympics through 2012, our NBC affiliated stations experience increased viewership and revenue during Olympic broadcasts in the first or third quarters of the years in which the Olympics are held. Other factors that affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of our competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, changes in newsprint prices, changes in the buying strategies of advertisers and general economic factors. These quarterly fluctuations in revenue and results of operations may cause our stock price to be volatile. We may not be able to acquire radio stations, television stations, newspapers or assets related to our internet-based growth strategy, successfully manage acquired properties, or increase our profits from these operations. Our diversified media business has in the past expanded through acquisitions of radio and television stations and community newspapers and shoppers in selected markets. We intend to pursue continued growth through selected acquisitions, including acquisitions and investments related to our internet-based growth strategy, if we are able to identify strategic acquisition candidates, negotiate definitive agreements on acceptable terms and, as necessary, secure additional financing. Our acquisition strategy includes certain risks. For example: • we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or, if identified, negotiate successfully their acquisition; • we may not be able to secure additional financing necessary to complete acquisitions; • we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations; • we may fail to achieve anticipated financial benefits from acquisitions; • we may encounter regulatory changes or delays or other impediments in connection with proposed transactions; • our acquisition strategy may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of our businesses; • key personnel at acquired companies may leave employment; and • we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than more profitable areas. In addition, we compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully make future acquisitions or what effects those acquisitions may have on our financial condition and results of operations. We have in the past and may in the future cluster multiple radio and television stations in markets that we believe have demographic characteristics and growth potential suitable to further our business objectives. Multiple stations in the same geographic market area could make our results of operations more vulnerable to adverse local economic or demographic changes than they would otherwise be if our stations were located in geographically diverse areas. We anticipate that we would finance potential acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities and/or borrowings, which would reduce our cash available for other purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we would be able to obtain needed financing in the event strategic acquisition opportunities are identified. We may also consider financing acquisitions by issuing additional shares of class A common stock, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership. Another potential source of financing for future acquisitions is to incur 20 more debt, which would lead to increased leverage and debt service requirements. Inherent in any future acquisitions is the risk of transitioning company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly during the period immediately following any acquisitions. Decreases or slow growth in circulation may adversely affect our revenues. Advertising and circulation revenues are affected by circulation, readership levels and overall audience reach. Our daily newspaper, and the newspaper industry as a whole, is experiencing difficulty maintaining and increasing print circulation and related revenues. This is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media products and sources other than traditional newspapers (often free to users), and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news other than from a newspaper. A prolonged decrease in circulation copies could have a material effect on our revenues, particularly if we are not able to otherwise grow our readership levels and overall audience reach. To maintain our circulation base, we may incur additional costs, and we may not be able to recover these costs through circulation and advertising revenues. Our publishing business may suffer if there is a significant increase in the cost of newsprint or a reduction in the availability of newsprint. The basic raw material for newspapers and shoppers is newsprint. Our newsprint consumption related to our publications totaled $24.8 million in 2008, which was 10.2% of our total publishing revenue. We currently purchase our newsprint primarily from a single supplier, with our current pricing agreement ending in December 2011. Our inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future or significant increases in newsprint costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes relating to consumer information collection and use could adversely affect our ability to collect and use data, which could harm our business. Public concern over methods of information gathering has led to the enactment of legislation in most jurisdictions that restricts the collection and use of consumer information. Our publishing business relies in part on telemarketing sales, which are affected by recent “do not call” legislation at both the federal and state levels. We also engage in e-mail marketing and the collection and use of consumer information in connection with our publishing and broadcasting businesses and our growing internet efforts. Further legislation, industry regulations, the issuance of judicial interpretations or a change in customs relating to the collection, management, aggregation and use of consumer information could materially increase the cost of collecting that data, or limit our ability to provide information to our customers or otherwise utilize telemarketing or e-mail marketing, and could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry standards, our radio stations may not be able to effectively compete. The broadcast media industry is subject to the emergence of new media technologies and evolving industry standards. Several new technologies are being developed and/or utilized that may compete with our radio stations, including: • audio programming by cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications and wireless systems, internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; • satellite digital audio radio service, with sound quality comparable to that of compact discs and that provide numerous niche formats; • in-band on-channel digital radio, which could improve the quality of existing AM and FM stations, including stations owned by us; 21 • expanded approval of low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets designed to serve small, localized areas; and • enhanced capabilities of cell phones, MP3 players, and other mobile devices. These new technologies have the potential to introduce new market competitors or change the means by which radio advertisers can most efficiently and effectively reach their target audiences. We may not have the resources to acquire new technologies or to introduce new services that could compete with these new technologies. If we are unable to respond to changes in technology and evolving industry standards, our television stations may not be able to effectively compete. New technologies could also adversely affect our television stations. Programming alternatives such as cable, direct satellite-to-home services, mobile media services, pay-per-view, on-demand programming, the internet and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized television viewing audiences. Over the past decade, cable television programming services have captured an increasing market share, while the aggregate viewership of the major television networks has declined. In addition, the expansion of cable television and other technological changes, including the recent entry by certain of the regional Bell operating companies into the video services delivery market, has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive demand for programming. Such increased demand, together with rising production costs may, in the future, increase our programming costs or impair our ability to acquire programming. The enhanced video and audio capabilities of cell phones, MP3 players and other mobile devices also has the potential to affect television viewership. In addition, video compression techniques now in use with direct broadcast satellites and, increasingly, by cable and wireless cable, are expected to permit greater numbers of channels to be carried within existing bandwidth. These compression techniques, as well as other technological developments, which are applicable to all video delivery systems and enable television broadcasters operating digital signals to offer multiple channels, have the potential to provide vastly expanded programming to highly targeted audiences. Reduction in the cost of creating additional channel capacity could lower entry barriers for new channels and encourage the development of increasingly specialized niche programming. This ability to reach very narrowly defined audiences may alter the competitive dynamics for advertising expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect that these technological changes will have on the television industry or the future results of our television broadcast business. As part of the conversion from analog to digital broadcasting, our television stations will be required to cease analog broadcasts at the end of the transition, which was scheduled to occur February 17, 2009 and has now been delayed to June 12, 2009. We are unable to predict the effect of the cessation of analog broadcasting on viewership. If the network programming we broadcast pursuant to network affiliation agreements does not maintain satisfactory viewership levels or if the networks we are affiliated with terminate or do not renew our agreements, our advertising revenues, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The television viewership levels, and ultimately advertising revenue, for each of our stations are materially dependent upon network programming, which is provided pursuant to network affiliation agreements. We cannot assure you that network programming will achieve or maintain satisfactory viewership levels. In particular, because four of our stations (including one of our low-power stations) are parties to affiliation agreements with ABC, three with NBC, two with FOX, one with CBS and one with CW, failures of ABC, NBC, FOX, CBS or CW network programming to attract viewers or generate satisfactory ratings may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our network affiliation agreements on as favorable terms or at all. The termination or non-renewal, or renewal on less favorable terms, of the affiliation agreements could have an adverse effect on us. 22 Changes in the relationship of television networks with their affiliates and other content providers and distribution channels also could affect our results of operation. For example, networks and other content providers recently have begun to sell programming content through new distribution channels and offer viewers the ability to watch programs on-demand, rather than on an established “live” television broadcast schedule. The costs of television programming may increase, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Television programming is a significant operating cost component in our broadcasting operations. We cannot assure you that we will not be exposed in the future to increased programming costs. Should such an increase occur, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Television networks have been seeking arrangements from their affiliates to share the networks’ programming costs. We cannot predict the nature or scope of any such potential compensation arrangements or the effect, if any, on our operations. In addition, acquisitions of program rights for syndicated programming are usually made two or three years in advance and may require multi-year commitments, making it difficult to predict accurately how a program will perform. In some instances, programs must be replaced before their costs have been fully amortized, resulting in write-offs that increase station operating costs and decrease station earnings. If our key on-air talent does not remain with us or loses popularity, our advertising revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. We employ or independently contract with a number of on-air personalities and hosts of television and radio programs whose ratings success depends in part on audience loyalty in their respective markets. Although we have entered into long-term agreements with some of our key on-air talent and program hosts to protect our interests in those relationships, we cannot assure you that all or any of these key employees will remain with us over the long term. Furthermore, the popularity and audience loyalty to our key on-air talent and program hosts is highly sensitive to rapidly changing public tastes. A loss of such popularity or audience loyalty could reduce ratings and may impact our ability to generate advertising revenue. In addition, our key local management employees are extremely important to our business since we believe that our growth and future success depends on retaining local management with knowledge of the community, its audience and its advertisers. Our inability to attract or retain these skilled personnel could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the professional sports industry or changes in our contractual relationships with local professional sports teams could result in decreased ratings for our Milwaukee radio station and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Milwaukee radio station, WTMJ-AM, currently maintains exclusive radio broadcast rights for the Green Bay Packers, Milwaukee Bucks and Milwaukee Brewers, and arranges a statewide radio network for the broadcast of their games. Our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by changes in the professional sports industry, such as a relocation of one of the local professional sports teams from the Wisconsin market or the potential loss of exclusivity due to league or team initiatives such as pay-per-listen, satellite radio or internet broadcast of games. In addition, we could lose our exclusive broadcast rights during periodic competitive bidding, or suffer damage to the marketplace value of sports advertising due to factors such as a players’ strike, negative publicity or downturn in on-field performance of a team. If cable systems and other video distribution systems do not carry our new digital channels or we do not enter into acceptable agreements with such systems, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. Since our television stations are highly dependent on carriage by cable systems in many of the areas they service, any modifications to rules regarding the obligations of cable systems to carry digital television signals in their local markets could result in some of our television stations or channels not being carried on cable systems, 23 which could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our television stations have the option to elect to negotiate retransmission agreements with cable systems. If certain stations make this election and we are unable to negotiate these agreements in a timely manner or on favorable economic terms, some of our stations may not be carried on certain cables systems for a period of time and our revenue and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may also be unable to negotiate or renegotiate acceptable agreements with other types of video distribution systems, which could also cause our revenue and results of operations to be adversely affected. If we cannot renew our FCC broadcast licenses, our business will be impaired. Our business depends upon maintaining our broadcast licenses, which are issued by the FCC for a term of eight years and are renewable. Pursuant to FCC rules, our broadcast license for station WTMJ-TV that expired in 2005 remains in effect pending processing by the FCC of its timely filed renewal application. Interested parties may challenge a renewal application. The FCC has the authority to revoke licenses, not renew them, or renew them with conditions, including renewals for less than a full term. We cannot assure you that our future renewal applications will be approved, or that the renewals, even if granted, will not include conditions or qualifications that could adversely affect our operations. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, or renew them with substantial conditions or modifications (including renewing one or more of our licenses for a term of fewer than eight years), it could prevent us from operating the affected station and generating revenue from it. The FCC may impose sanctions or penalties for violations of rules or regulations. If we or any of our officers, directors or significant shareholders materially violate the FCC’s rules and regulations or are convicted of a felony or are found to have engaged in unlawful anticompetitive conduct or fraud upon another government agency, the FCC may, in response to a petition by a third party or on its own initiative, in its discretion, commence a proceeding to impose sanctions upon us that could involve the imposition of monetary penalties, the denial of a license renewal application, revocation of a broadcast license or other sanctions. If the FCC were to issue an order denying a license renewal application or revoking a license, we would be required to cease operating the broadcast station only after we had exhausted all administrative and judicial review without success. In addition, the FCC has recently emphasized more vigorous enforcement of indecency standards and the prohibition on “payola,” which could result in increased costs associated with the adoption and implementation of stricter compliance procedures at our broadcast facilities or FCC fines. We could experience delays in expanding our business due to antitrust laws. The Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice and the FCC carefully review our proposed business acquisitions and dispositions under their respective regulatory authority, focusing on the effects on competition, the number and types of stations owned in a market and the effects on concentration of market revenue share. The Department of Justice has challenged proposed acquisitions of radio stations, particularly in instances where an existing licensee seeks to acquire additional radio stations in the same market. Some of these challenges ultimately resulted in consent decrees requiring, among other things, divestitures of certain stations. In general, the Department of Justice has more closely scrutinized radio station acquisitions that result in local market shares in excess of 40% of radio advertising revenue. Any delay, prohibition or modification required by regulatory authorities could adversely affect the terms of a proposed transaction or could require us to modify or abandon an otherwise attractive acquisition opportunity. The filing of petitions or complaints against us or any FCC licensee from which we acquire a station could result in the FCC delaying the grant of, refusing to grant or imposing conditions on its consent to the assignment or transfer of control of licenses. Regulatory changes may result in increased competition in our radio and television broadcasting business. The radio and television broadcasting industry is subject to extensive and changing federal regulation. Among other things, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and FCC rules and policies require FCC approval for transfers of control and assignments of licenses, and limit the number and types of broadcast 24 properties in a market in which any person or entity may have an attributable interest. Media ownership restrictions include a variety of limits on local ownership, such as a limit of one television station in medium and smaller markets and two stations in larger markets as long as one station is not a top-four rated station (known as the duopoly rule), a prohibition on ownership of a daily English-language newspaper and a television or radio station in the same market, and limits both on the ownership of radio stations, and on common ownership of radio stations and television stations, in the same local market. In response to a court order and to satisfy its statutory obligation to conduct a quadrennial review of its media ownership rules, the FCC undertook further review of changes to its ownership rules adopted in 2003 (the effectiveness of which had been stayed pending judicial review). In December, 2007, the FCC adopted an order relaxing only the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule and declining to make changes in its other broadcast ownership rules. Requests for reconsideration and judicial review of the FCC’s decision to relax the newspaper broadcast cross-ownership rule in the top twenty markets have been filed and are pending. It is impossible to predict the outcome of this further review. In addition, the 2004 Consolidated Appropriations Act prohibits any person or entity from having an attributable interest in broadcast television stations with an aggregate audience reach exceeding 39% of television households nationally. The increase in the national television viewership cap gave the largest television operators the ability to continue to hold or to acquire additional stations, which may give them a competitive advantage over us, since they have much greater financial and other resources than we have. In addition, the networks’ ability to acquire additional stations could give them “leverage” over their affiliates on issues such as compensation and program clearance, in part because of the risk that a network facing an uncooperative affiliate could acquire a station in the market and terminate its agreement with that affiliate. Congress, the FCC or other federal agencies may in the future consider and adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation, ownership and profitability of our television and radio stations and result in the loss of audience share and advertising revenue for our stations. Examples of such changes include: • proposals to increase regulatory fees or to impose spectrum use or other fees on FCC licenses; • proposals to restrict or prohibit the advertising of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages; • proposals to limit the tax deductibility of advertising expenses by advertisers; • proposals to impose sales tax on advertising expense; • proposals to revise the rules relating to political broadcasting; • proposals to require broadcast stations to operate studios in the communities to which they are licensed, requiring construction of new studios, and to provide staffing on a 24 hour per day basis; and • proposals to require radio broadcasters to pay royalties to musicians and record labels for the performance of music played on the stations. Risks Relating to Our Printing Services Business and Other Segment Postal rate increases and disruptions in postal services could lead to reduced volumes of business. Our printing services business, as well as our direct marketing business, has been negatively impacted from time to time during the past years by postal rate increases. Rate increases may result in customers mailing fewer pieces with reduced page counts. The USPS most recently announced an increase in postal rates effective May 2009, and has implemented a policy of annual cost of living increases with the cost of postage that are targeted to be implemented in May each year. Additionally, the amount of mailings could be reduced in response to disruptions in and concerns over the security of the United States mail system. Such responses by customers could negatively impact us by decreasing the amount of printing and direct marketing services or other services that our customers purchase from us, which could result in decreased revenue. 25 Material cost increases could lead to reduced volumes of business. Our printing services business has been negatively affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, such as paper, ink, chemicals and packaging. These price increases are often passed along to our customers and, in turn, our customers have reduced the number of pieces they mail and/or the number of pages they have us print. Such cost increases may continue to result in customers mailing fewer pieces and/or reducing the number of pages they have us print. Revenue from our direct marketing business may decline if our data and laser print personalization products do not maintain technological competitiveness. Our direct marketing service business is affected by the complexity and uncertainty of new technologies. If we are not able to maintain technological competitiveness in our data and print personalization products, processing functionality or software systems and services, we may not be able to provide effective or efficient service to our customers, and our revenue may decline. Changes in economic conditions in the markets we serve may produce volatility in demand for our products and services. Customers of our printing services business and our direct marketing services business may reduce their spending during economic downturns; a recession or economic downturn has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Other Business Risks Our business has been and may be in the future negatively affected by an impairment charge of goodwill, broadcast licenses or other intangible assets. Due to deteriorating macro-economic factors, a prolonged adverse change in the business climate, deteriorating market conditions and results and a further decline in our stock price, we performed interim impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets as of September 28, 2008. As a result of the testing, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge related to four television and 13 radio broadcast licenses of $38.8 million. Due to the continuation of the downturn in the economy that adversely impacted our fourth quarter 2008 operating results and caused us to significantly reduce our expected cash flows for 2009 and beyond, and further declines in the market value of our common stock, we performed an interim impairment test as of December 28, 2008 on goodwill relating to our reporting units and broadcast licenses and other identifiable assets at individual television and radio stations. As a result of the fourth quarter interim testing, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for goodwill of $245.9 million and a pre-tax non-cash impairment charge for eight television broadcast licenses and 24 radio broadcast licenses of $90.4 million. After such charges, as of December 28, 2008, we had a total of $132.1 million of goodwill, broadcast licenses and other intangible assets on our balance sheet, representing 24.3% of our total assets. The 2008 impairment charges had, and any future non-cash impairment charge of goodwill, broadcast licenses or other intangible assets would have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to utilize deferred tax assets to offset future federal and state taxable income. As of December 28, 2008, we had a total of $69.3 million of deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. We expect to utilize the deferred tax assets to reduce our consolidated federal and state income tax liabilities over a period of time not to exceed 20 years. However, we may not be able to fully utilize the deferred tax assets if our future federal and state taxable income and related income tax liability is insufficient to permit their use. In addition, in the future, we may be required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets if we believe we are unable to utilize them, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 The current economic crisis and volatility in US credit markets could affect our financing arrangements. Given the current economic crisis, including the current instability of financial institutions, one or more of the lenders in our revolving credit facility syndicate could fail or be unable to fund future draws thereunder or take other positions adverse to us. In such an event, our liquidity could be severely restrained. In addition, our ability to meet our credit agreement’s financial covenants may also be affected by events beyond our control, including a further deterioration of current economic and industry conditions, which could negatively affect our earnings. If it is determined we are not in compliance with these financial covenants, the lenders in our credit facility syndicate will be entitled to take certain actions, including acceleration of all amounts due under the facility. If the lenders take such action, we may be forced to amend the terms of the credit agreement, obtain a waiver or find alternative sources of capital. Because of the current volatility in US credit markets, obtaining new financing arrangements or amending our existing one may result in significantly higher fees and ongoing interest costs as compared to those in our current arrangement. If we are unable to obtain alternative sources of capital, it may be necessary to significantly restructure our business operations or sell assets, or, in the event of a prolonged and extensive economic decline, seek bankruptcy protection. We depend on key personnel, and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract qualified personnel in the future. We are dependent upon the efforts of our senior executive officers. The success of our business is heavily dependent on our ability to retain our current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain our personnel. We have not entered into employment agreements with our key personnel, other than with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and these individuals may not continue in their present capacity with us for any particular period of time. We have, however, entered into change in control agreements with certain of our senior executives which provide, within two years after a change in control, severance payments and benefits to the executive if his or her employment is terminated without cause or the executive resigns for good reason. We do not have key man insurance for any of our executive officers or key personnel. The loss of any senior executive officer could require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. Our inability to find a replacement for any departing executive officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business. Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees. Currently, there are 12 bargaining units representing approximately 700 (or approximately 18%) of our total number of employees. We have entered into various collective bargaining agreements with these bargaining units. Ten of these agreements have expired or will expire within the next two years. An agreement covering 40 employees of our broadcasting business expired in February 2008 and another agreement covering 197 employees of our daily newspaper expired on December 31, 2008. These employees continue to work without a contract. The majority of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement work at the daily newspaper. We cannot assure you the results of negotiations of future collective bargaining agreements or of negotiations related to reopening of collective bargaining agreements in order to reduce our labor costs or achieve other objectives will be negotiated without interruptions in our businesses. We cannot assure you that strikes will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot assure you the impact of future collective bargaining agreements will not have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 