Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our business strategy depends on our continued growth. We may fail to integrate recent and additional investments into our operations or otherwise manage our planned growth, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our business plan contemplates a period of continued growth in the next several years. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting, and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff to successfully integrate our recent investments into our portfolio and manage any future acquisitions of additional assets without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Acquisitions of any 14 Table of Contents additional portfolios of properties or mortgages would generate additional operating expenses that we will be required to pay. As we acquire additional assets, we will be subject to the operational risks associated with owning new lodging properties. Our failure to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions as well as any future acquisitions into our portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. We may be unable to identify additional real estate investments that meet our investment criteria or to acquire the properties we have under contract. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify real estate investments that meet our investment criteria, that we will be successful in completing any investment we identify, or that any investment we complete will produce a return on our investment. Moreover, we will have broad authority to invest in any real estate investments that we may identify in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will acquire properties we currently have under firm purchase contracts, if any, or that the acquisition terms we have negotiated will not change. Conflicts of interest could result in our management acting other than in our stockholders’ best interest. Conflicts of interest relating to Remington Lodging may lead to management decisions that are not in the stockholders’ best interest. The Chairman of our Board of Directors, Mr. Archie Bennett, Jr., serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Remington Lodging, and our Chief Executive Officer and President, Mr. Montgomery Bennett, serves as the Chief Executive Officer and President of Remington Lodging. Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett own 100% of Remington Lodging, which, as of December 31, 2007, manages 43 of our 112 properties and provides related services, including property management services and project management services. Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett’s ownership interests in and management obligations to Remington Lodging present them with conflicts of interest in making management decisions related to the commercial arrangements between us and Remington Lodging and will reduce the time and effort they each spend managing us. Our Board of Directors has adopted a policy that requires all approvals, actions or decisions to which the Company has the right to make under the management agreements with Remington Lodging be approved by a majority or, in certain circumstances, all of our independent directors. However, given the authority and/or operational latitude to Remington Lodging under the management agreements to which the Company is a party, Messrs. Archie Bennett and Montgomery Bennett, as officers of Remington Lodging, could take actions or make decisions that are not in the stockholders’ best interest or that are otherwise consistent with their obligations under the management agreements or the Company’s obligations under the applicable franchise agreements. Holders of units in our operating partnership, including members of our management team, may suffer adverse tax consequences upon our sale of certain properties. Therefore, holders of units, either directly or indirectly, including Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett, Mr. David Brooks, our Chief Legal Officer, Mr. David Kimichik, our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Mark Nunneley, our Chief Accounting Officer, and Mr. Martin L. Edelman (or his family members), one of our directors, may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of a particular property’s sale. These officers and directors of ours may influence us not to sell or refinance certain properties, even if such sale or refinancing might be financially advantageous to our stockholders, or to enter into tax deferred exchanges with the proceeds of such sales when such a reinvestment might not otherwise be in our best interest. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify contributors of properties contributed to us in exchange for operating partnership units, including (indirectly) Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett, Brooks, Kimichik, Nunneley, and Edelman (or his family members), against the income tax they may incur if we dispose of the specified contributed properties. Because of this indemnification, our indemnified management team members may make decisions about selling any of these properties that are not in our stockholders’ best interest. We are a party to a master hotel management agreement and an exclusivity agreement with Remington Lodging, which describes the terms of Remington Lodging’s management of our hotels, as well as any future hotels we may acquire that will be managed by Remington Lodging. If we terminate the management agreement as to any of the remaining five hotels we acquired in connection with our initial public offering, which are all subject to the management agreement, because we elect to sell those hotels, we will be required to pay Remington Lodging a 15 Table of Contents substantial termination fee. Remington Lodging may agree to waive the termination fee if a replacement hotel is substituted but is under no contractual obligation to do so. The exclusivity agreement requires us to engage Remington Lodging, unless our independent directors either (i) unanimously vote to hire a different manager or developer, or (ii) by a majority vote, elect not to engage Remington Lodging because they have determined that special circumstances exist or that, based on Remington Lodging’s prior performance, another manager or developer could perform the duties materially better. As the sole owners of Remington Lodging, which would receive any development, management, and management termination fees payable by us under the management agreement, Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett may influence our decisions to sell, acquire, or develop hotels when it is not in the best interests of our stockholders to do so. In addition, Ashford Financial Corporation, an affiliate, contributed certain asset management and consulting agreements to us in connection with our initial public offering relating to management and consulting services that Ashford Financial Corporation agreed to perform for hotel property managers with respect to 27 identified hotel properties in which Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett held a minority interest. Ashford Financial Corporation is 100% owned by Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett. The agreements provided for annual payments to us, as the assignee of Ashford Financial Corporation, in consideration for our performance of certain asset management and consulting services. The exact amount of the consideration due to us under the remaining asset management and consulting agreements was initially contingent upon the revenue generated by the hotels underlying the asset management and consulting agreements. Ashford Financial Corporation guaranteed a minimum payment to us of $1.2 million per year, subject to adjustments based on the consumer price index, through December 31, 2008. All of the 27 hotel properties for which we previously provided the asset management and consulting services have been sold, including our acquisition of 21 of the hotel properties in March 2005. Accordingly, we anticipate collecting the balance of the guaranteed minimum payment of $1.2 million per year from Ashford Financial Corporation under its guarantee. Tax indemnification obligations that apply in the event that we sell certain properties could limit our operating flexibility. If we dispose of the four remaining properties that were contributed to us in exchange for units in our operating partnership in connection with our initial public offering, we may be obligated to indemnify the contributors, including Messrs. Archie and Monty Bennett whom have substantial ownership interests, against the tax consequences of the sale. In addition, under the tax indemnification agreements, we have agreed for a period of 10 years to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain non-recourse mortgage indebtedness in the amount of at least $16.0 million, which will allow the contributors to defer recognition of gain in connection with the contribution of the Las Vegas hotel property as part of our formation. Additionally, for certain periods of time, we are prohibited from selling or transferring the Sea Turtle Inn in Atlantic Beach, Florida, and the Marriott Crystal Gateway in Arlington, Virginia, if as a result, the entity from which we acquired the property would recognize gain for federal tax purposes. Further, in connection with our acquisition of certain properties in March 2005 that were contributed to us in exchange for units in our operating partnership, we agreed to certain tax indemnities with respect to 11 additional properties. If we dispose of any of these 11 properties or reduce the debt on these properties in a transaction that results in a taxable gain to the contributors, we may be obligated to indemnify the contributors or their specified assignees against the tax consequences of the transaction. In general, our tax indemnities will be equal to the amount of the federal, state, and local income tax liability the contributor or its specified assignee incurs with respect to the gain allocated to the contributor. The terms of the contribution agreements also generally require us to gross up tax indemnity payments for the amount of income taxes due as a result of the tax indemnity. While the tax indemnities generally do not contractually limit our ability to conduct our business in the way we desire, we are less likely to sell any of the contributed properties for which we have agreed to the tax indemnities described above in a taxable transaction during the applicable indemnity period. Instead, we would either hold the property for the entire indemnity period or seek to transfer the property in a tax-deferred like-kind exchange. In addition, a condemnation of one of our properties could trigger our tax indemnification obligations. 16 Table of Contents Hotel franchise requirements could adversely affect distributions to our stockholders. We must comply with operating standards, terms, and conditions imposed by the franchisors of the hotel brands under which our hotels operate. Franchisors periodically inspect their licensed hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards. The failure of a hotel to maintain standards could result in the loss or cancellation of a franchise license. With respect to operational standards, we rely on our property managers to conform to such standards. Franchisors may also require us to make certain capital improvements to maintain the hotel in accordance with system standards, the cost of which can be substantial. It is possible that a franchisor could condition the continuation of a franchise based on the completion of capital improvements that our management or Board of Directors determines is too expensive or otherwise not economically feasible in light of general economic conditions or the operating results or prospects of the affected hotel. In that event, our management or Board of Directors may elect to allow the franchise to lapse or be terminated, which could result in a change in brand franchising or operation of the hotel as an independent hotel. In addition, when the term of a franchise expires, the franchisor has no obligation to issue a new franchise. The loss of a franchise could have a material adverse effect on the operations or the underlying value of the affected hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support, and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. The loss of a franchise could also have a material adverse effect on cash available for distribution to stockholders. Future terrorist attacks similar in nature to the events of September 11, 2001 may negatively affect the performance of our properties, the hotel industry in general, and our future results of operations and financial condition. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, their after-effects, and the resulting U.S.-led military action in Iraq substantially reduced business and leisure travel throughout the United States and hotel industry revenue per available room, or RevPAR, generally during the period following September 11, 2001. We cannot predict the extent to which additional terrorist attacks, acts of war, or similar events may occur in the future or how such events would directly or indirectly impact the hotel industry or our operating results. Future terrorist attacks, acts of war, or similar events could have further material adverse effects on the hotel industry at large and our operations in particular. Our investments will be concentrated in particular segments of a single industry. Our entire business is hotel related. Our current investment strategy is to acquire or develop upscale to upper-upscale hotels, acquire first mortgages on hotel properties, invest in other mortgage-related instruments such as mezzanine loans to hotel owners and operators, and participate in hotel sale-leaseback transactions. Adverse conditions in the hotel industry will have a material adverse effect on our operating and investment revenues and cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We rely on third party property managers, including Remington Lodging, to operate our hotels and for a significant majority of our cash flow. For us to continue to qualify as a REIT, third parties must operate our hotels. A REIT may lease its hotels to taxable REIT subsidiaries in which the REIT can own up to a 100% interest. A taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS, pays corporate-level income tax and may retain any after-tax income. A REIT must satisfy certain conditions to use the TRS structure. One of those conditions is that the TRS must hire, to manage the hotels, an “eligible independent contractor” (“EIC”) that is actively engaged in the trade or business of managing hotels for parties other than the REIT. An EIC cannot (i) own more than 35% of the REIT, (ii) be owned more than 35% by persons owning more than 35% of the REIT, or (iii) provide any income to the REIT (i.e., the EIC cannot pay fees to the REIT, and the REIT cannot own any debt or equity securities of the EIC). Accordingly, while we may lease hotels to a TRS that we own, the TRS must engage a third-party operator to manage the hotels. Thus, our ability to direct and control how our hotels are operated is less than if we were able to manage our hotels directly. We have entered into management agreements with Remington Lodging, which is 17 Table of Contents owned 100% by Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett, to manage 43 of our 112 lodging properties owned as of December 31, 2007 and have hired unaffiliated third — party property managers to manage our remaining properties. We do not supervise any of the property managers or their respective personnel on a day-to-day basis, and we cannot assure you that the property managers will manage our properties in a manner that is consistent with their respective obligations under the applicable management agreement or our obligations under our hotel franchise agreements. We also cannot assure you that our property managers will not be negligent in their performance, will not engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or will not otherwise default on their respective management obligations to us. If any of the foregoing occurs, our relationships with the franchisors may be damaged, we may be in breach of the franchise agreement, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our property or to persons at our properties. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. If we cannot obtain additional financing, our growth will be limited. We are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year to continue to qualify as a REIT. As a result, our retained earnings available to fund acquisitions, development, or other capital expenditures are nominal. As such, we rely upon the availability of additional debt or equity capital to fund these activities. Our long-term ability to grow through acquisitions or development of hotel-related assets will be limited if we cannot obtain additional financing. Market conditions may make it difficult to obtain financing, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing or that we will be able to obtain it on favorable terms. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay dividends to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year to our stockholders. We intend to distribute to our stockholders all or substantially all of our taxable income each year so as to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, but our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make distributions in the future. In the event of continued or future downturns in our operating results and financial performance, unanticipated capital improvements to our hotels, or declines in the value of our mortgage portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of distributions are in the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, which will consider, among other factors, our financial performance, debt service obligations applicable debt covenants, and capital expenditure requirements. We are subject to various risks related to our use of, and dependence on, debt. The interest we pay on variable — rate debt increases as interest rates increase, which may decrease cash available for distribution to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we do not meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure. Changes in economic conditions or our financial results or prospects could (i) result in higher interest rates on variable — rate debt, (ii) reduce the availability of debt financing generally or debt financing at favorable rates, (iii) reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders, and (iv) increase the risk that we could be forced to liquidate assets to repay debt, any of which could have a material adverse affect on us. If we violate covenants in any debt agreements, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, if at all. Violations of certain debt covenants may prohibit us from borrowing unused amounts under our lines of credit, even if repayment of some or all the borrowings is not required. In any event, financial covenants under our current or future debt obligations could impair our planned business strategies by limiting our ability to borrow beyond certain amounts or for certain purposes. Our governing instruments do not contain any limitation on our ability to incur indebtedness. 18 Table of Contents We compete with other hotels for guests. We also face competition for acquisitions of lodging properties and of desirable mortgage investments. The mid, upscale, and upper-upscale segments of the hotel business are competitive. Our hotels compete on the basis of location, room rates, quality, service levels, reputation, and reservation systems, among many other factors. New hotels may be constructed and these additions to supply create new competitors, in some cases without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. The result in some cases may be lower revenue, which would result in lower cash available for distribution to stockholders. We compete for hotel acquisitions with entities that have similar investment objectives as we do. This competition could limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. It may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms or on the terms contemplated in our business plan. We also compete for mortgage asset investments with numerous public and private real estate investment vehicles, such as mortgage banks, pension funds, other REITs, institutional investors, and individuals. Mortgages and other investments are often obtained through a competitive bidding process. In addition, competitors may seek to establish relationships with the financial institutions and other firms from which we intend to purchase such assets. Competition may result in higher prices for mortgage assets, lower yields, and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs. Some of our competitors are larger than us, may have access to greater capital, marketing, and other resources, may have personnel with more experience than our officers, may be able to accept higher levels of debt or otherwise may tolerate more risk than us, may have better relations with hotel franchisors, sellers, or lenders, and may have other advantages over us in conducting certain business and providing certain services. We may engage in hedging transactions, which can limit our gains and increase exposure to losses. We may enter into hedging transactions to protect (i) us from the effects of interest rate fluctuations on floating — rate debt and (ii) our portfolio of mortgage assets from interest rate and prepayment rate fluctuations. Our hedging transactions may include entering into interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, purchasing or selling futures contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into forward rate agreements. Hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates and prepayment rates. Moreover, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things: • Available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought. • The duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability. • The party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. • The credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction. • The value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with generally accepted accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity. Hedging involves both risks and costs, including transaction costs, which may reduce our overall returns on our investments. These costs increase as the period covered by the hedging relationship increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. These costs will also limit the amount of cash available for distributions to stockholders. We generally intend to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. The REIT qualification rules may limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions by requiring us to limit our income from hedges. If we are unable to hedge effectively because of the REIT rules, we will face greater interest rate exposure than may be commercially prudent. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to sell our investments on favorable terms. We may decide to sell investments for a variety of reasons. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell any of our investments on favorable terms or that our investments will not be sold for a loss. Risks Related to Hotel Investments We are subject to general risks associated with operating hotels. Our hotels and hotels underlying our mortgage and mezzanine loans are subject to various operating risks common to the hotel industry, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • our hotels compete with other hotel properties in their geographic markets and many of our competitors have substantial marketing and financial resources; • over-building in our markets, which adversely affects occupancy and revenues at our hotels; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; and • adverse effects of general, regional, and local economic conditions and increases in energy costs or labor costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists. These factors could adversely affect our hotel revenues and expenses, as well as the hotels underlying our mortgage and mezzanine loans, which in turn would adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We may have to make significant capital expenditures to maintain our lodging properties. Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements of furniture, fixtures, and equipment. Franchisors of our hotels may also require periodic capital improvements as a condition of maintaining franchise licenses. Generally, we are responsible for the cost of these capital improvements, which gives rise to the following risks: • cost overruns and delays; • renovations can be disruptive to operations and can displace revenue at the hotels, including revenue lost while rooms under renovation are out of service; • the cost of funding renovations and the possibility that financing for these renovations may not be available on attractive terms; and • the risk that the return on our investment in these capital improvements will not be what we expect. If we have insufficient cash flow from operations to fund needed capital expenditures, then we will need to borrow to fund future capital improvements. The hotel business is seasonal, which affects our results of operations from quarter to quarter. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. Generally, occupancy rates and hotel revenues are greater in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters. This seasonality can cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Our hotel investments may be subject to risks relating to potential terrorist activity During 2007, approximately 16% of total revenue from 12 hotels was generated from hotels located in the Washington D.C. and Baltimore areas, the areas vulnerable to terrorist attack. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by potential terrorist activity. that may cause in the future, or results to differ materially from anticipated results. 20 Table of Contents Our development activities may be more costly than we have anticipated. As part of our growth strategy, we may develop additional hotels. Hotel development involves substantial risks, including that: • actual development costs may exceed our budgeted or contracted amounts; • construction delays may prevent us from opening hotels on schedule; • we may not be able to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and construction permits; • our developed properties may not achieve our desired revenue or profit goals; and • we may incur substantial development costs and then have to abandon a development project before completion. Risks Relating to Investments in Mortgages and Mezzanine Loans Mortgage investments that are not United States government insured and non-investment grade mortgage assets involve risk of loss. As part of our business strategy, we originate and acquire lodging-related uninsured and non-investment grade mortgage loans and mortgage assets, including mezzanine loans. While holding these interests, we are subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud and related losses, and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. Also, costs of financing the mortgage loans could exceed returns on the mortgage loans. In the event of any default under mortgage loans held by us, we will bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the mortgage loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in mortgage loans, our value and the price of our securities may be adversely affected. We invest in non-recourse loans, which will limit our recovery to the value of the mortgaged property. Our mortgage loan assets are generally non-recourse. With respect to our non-recourse mortgage loan assets, in the event of a borrower default, the specific mortgaged property and other assets, if any, pledged to secure the relevant mortgage loan, may be less than the amount owed under the mortgage loan. As to those mortgage loan assets that provide for recourse against the borrower and its assets generally, we cannot assure you that the recourse will provide a recovery in respect of a defaulted mortgage loan greater than the liquidation value of the mortgaged property securing that mortgage loan. Investment yields affect our decision whether to originate or purchase investments and the price offered for such investments. In making any investment, we consider the expected yield of the investment and the factors that may influence the yield actually obtained on such investment. These considerations affect our decision whether to originate or purchase an investment and the price offered for that investment. No assurances can be given that we can make an accurate assessment of the yield to be produced by an investment. Many factors beyond our control are likely to influence the yield on the investments, including, but not limited to, competitive conditions in the local real estate market, local and general economic conditions, and the quality of management of the underlying property. Our inability to accurately assess investment yields may result in our purchasing assets that do not perform as well as expected, which may adversely affect the price of our securities. Volatility of values of mortgaged properties may adversely affect our mortgage loans. Lodging property values and net operating income derived from lodging properties are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including the risk factors described herein relating to general economic conditions, operating lodging properties, and owning real estate investments. In the event its net operating income decreases, a borrower may have difficulty paying our mortgage loan, which could result in losses to us. In 21 Table of Contents addition, decreases in property values reduce the value of the collateral and the potential proceeds available to a borrower to repay our mortgage loans, which could also cause us to suffer losses. Mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income-producing properties. We make and acquire mezzanine loans. These types of mortgage loans are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property due to a variety of factors, including the loan being entirely unsecured or, if secured, becoming unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. We may not recover some or all of our investment in these loans. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Mortgage debt obligations expose us to increased risk of property losses, which could harm our financial condition, cash flow, and ability to satisfy our other debt obligations and pay dividends. Incurring mortgage debt increases our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing any loans for which we are in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on the foreclosure but would not receive any cash proceeds. As a result, we may be required to identify and utilize other sources of cash for distributions to our stockholders of that income. In addition, our default under any one of our mortgage debt obligations may result in a default on our other indebtedness. If this occurs, our financial condition, cash flow, and ability to satisfy our other debt obligations or ability to pay dividends may be impaired. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties or mortgage loans in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial, and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost, and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies, and zoning and other ordinances, and costs of compliance with laws and regulations; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of war, and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property or loan for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property or loan. Because we intend to offer more flexible terms on our mortgage loans than some providers of commercial mortgage loans, we may have more difficulty selling or participating our loans to secondary purchasers than would these more traditional lenders. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In 22 Table of Contents acquiring a property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws may harm our operating results. Our properties and properties underlying our loan assets may be subject to environmental liabilities. An owner of real property, or a lender with respect to a property that exercises control over the property, can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of: • our knowledge of the contamination; • the timing of the contamination; • the cause of the contamination; or • the party responsible for the contamination. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties or properties underlying our loan assets of which we are unaware. Some of our properties or the properties underlying our loan assets use, or may have used in the past, underground tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products that could create a potential for release of hazardous substances. If environmental contamination exists on a property, we could become subject to strict, joint and several liability for the contamination if we own the property or if we foreclose on the property or otherwise have control over the property. The presence of hazardous substances on a property we own or have made a loan with respect to may adversely affect our ability to sell or foreclose on the property, and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties or properties underlying our loan assets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. We have environmental insurance policies on each of our owned properties, and we intend to obtain environmental insurance for any other properties that we may acquire. However, if environmental liabilities are discovered during the underwriting of the insurance policies for any property that we may acquire in the future, we may be unable to obtain insurance coverage for the liabilities at commercially reasonable rates or at all, and we may experience losses. In addition, we generally do not require our borrowers to obtain environmental insurance on the properties they own that secure their loans from us. Our properties and the properties underlying our mortgage loans may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties or the properties underlying our loan assets could require us or our borrowers to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us or our borrowers to liability from guests, employees, and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us or our borrowers to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our operating results. All of our properties and properties underlying our mortgage loans are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA requires that “public accommodations” such as hotels be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access 23 Table of Contents barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. We or our borrowers may be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA at our hotels or hotels underlying our loan assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, we and our borrowers are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We and our borrowers may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition as well as our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. We may experience uninsured or underinsured losses. We have property and casualty insurance with respect to our properties and other insurance, in each case, with loss limits and coverage thresholds deemed reasonable by our management (and with the intent to satisfy the requirements of lenders and franchisors). In doing so, we have made decisions with respect to what deductibles, policy limits, and terms are reasonable based on management’s experience, our risk profile, the loss history of our property managers and our properties, the nature of our properties and our businesses, our loss prevention efforts, and the cost of insurance. Various types of catastrophic losses may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors might cause insurance proceeds to be insufficient to fully replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that (i) the insurance coverage thresholds that we have obtained will fully protect us against insurable losses (i.e., losses may exceed coverage limits); (ii) we will not incur large deductibles that will adversely affect our earnings; (iii) we will not incur losses from risks that are not insurable or that are not economically insurable; or (iv) current coverage thresholds will continue to be available at reasonable rates. In the future, we may choose not to maintain terrorism insurance on any of our properties. As a result, one or more large uninsured or underinsured losses could have a material adverse affect on us. Each of our current lenders requires us to maintain certain insurance coverage thresholds, and we anticipate that future lenders will have similar requirements. We believe that we have complied with the insurance maintenance requirements under the current governing loan documents and we intend to comply with any such requirements in any future loan documents. However, a lender may disagree, in which case the lender could obtain additional coverage thresholds and seek payment from us, or declare us in default under the loan documents. In the former case, we could spend more for insurance than we otherwise deem reasonable or necessary or, in the latter case, subject us to a foreclosure on hotels collateralizing one or more loans. In addition, a material casualty to one or more hotels collateralizing loans may result in (i) the insurance company applying to the outstanding loan balance insurance proceeds that otherwise would be available to repair the damage caused by the casualty, which would require us to fund the repairs through other sources, or (ii) the lender foreclosing on the hotels if there is a material loss that is not insured. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT If we do not qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability. We conduct operations so as to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, new tax legislation, administrative guidance, or court decisions, in each 24 Table of Contents instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means being unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and being subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • we would also be subject to federal alternative minimum tax and, possibly, increased state and local taxes; • any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year that we lost our qualification, and, thus, our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders to maintain our tax status. As a result of all of these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT would impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, and make distributions to our stockholders and would adversely affect the value of our securities. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and assets. For example: • We will be required to pay tax on undistributed REIT taxable income. • We may be required to pay the “alternative minimum tax” on our items of tax preference. • If we have net income from the disposition of foreclosure property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay tax on that income at the highest corporate rate. • If we sell a property in a “prohibited transaction,” our gain from the sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. • Our taxable REIT subsidiary, Ashford TRS, is a fully taxable corporation and will be required to pay federal and state taxes on its income. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders, and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge mortgage securities and related borrowings by requiring us to limit our income in each year from qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified real estate assets, to no more than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from nonqualified hedging transactions, from our provision of services, and from other non-qualifying sources to no more than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we may have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques. This could result in greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to incur. If we were to violate the 25% or 5% limitations, we may have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of income in excess of those limitations multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect 25 Table of Contents our profitability. If we fail to satisfy the REIT gross income tests, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, we could lose our REIT status for federal income tax purposes. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities, and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes due to, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell investments at disadvantageous prices, or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our securities. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or our stockholders. On May 28, 2003, the President signed the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, which we refer to as the Jobs and Growth Tax Act. Effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, the Jobs and Growth Tax Act reduced the maximum rate of tax applicable to individuals on dividend income from regular C corporations from 38.6% to 15.0%. This reduced substantially the so-called “double taxation” (that is, taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that has generally applied to corporations that are not taxed as REITs. Generally, dividends from REITs will not qualify for the dividend tax reduction. The implementation of the Jobs and Growth Tax Act could ultimately cause individual investors to view stocks of non-REIT corporations as more attractive relative to shares of REITs because the dividends paid by non-REIT corporations would be subject to lower tax rates. We cannot predict whether in fact this will occur or whether, if it occurs, what the impact will be on the value of our securities. Your investment in our securities has various federal, state, and local income tax risks that could affect the value of your investment. Although the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code relevant to your investment in our securities are generally described in “Federal Income Tax Consequences of Our Status as a REIT,” we strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the effects of federal, state, and local income tax law on an investment in our securities because of the complex nature of the tax rules applicable to REITs and their stockholders. 26 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to Our Corporate Structure There are no assurances of our ability to make distributions in the future. We intend to continue paying quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described herein. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status, and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that we will conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act. Under Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the 1940 Act, entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring “mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate” are not treated as investment companies. The SEC staff’s position generally requires us to maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in qualifying real estate interests to be able to rely on this exemption. To constitute a qualifying real estate interest under this 55% requirement, a real estate interest must meet various criteria. Mortgage securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not qualify for purposes of the 55% requirement. Our ownership of these mortgage securities, therefore, is limited by the provisions of the 1940 Act and SEC staff interpretive positions. There are no assurances that efforts to pursue our intended investment program will not be adversely affected by operation of these rules. Our charter does not permit ownership in excess of 9.8% of our capital stock, and attempts to acquire our capital stock in excess of the 9.8% limit without approval from our Board of Directors are void. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock unless our Board of Directors grants a waiver. Our charter’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of 9.8% of the outstanding stock, and thus be subject to our charter’s ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the Board of Directors will be void, and could result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust. Because provisions contained in Maryland law and our charter may have an anti-takeover effect, investors may be prevented from receiving a “control premium” for their shares. Provisions contained in our charter and Maryland general corporation law may have effects that delay, defer, or prevent a takeover attempt, which may prevent stockholders from receiving a “control premium” for their shares. For example, these provisions may defer or prevent tender offers for our common stock or purchases of large blocks of our common stock, thereby limiting the opportunities for our stockholders to receive a premium for their common stock over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include the following: • Ownership limit: The ownership limit in our charter limits related investors, including, among other things, any voting group, from acquiring over 9.8% of our common stock without our permission. • Classification of preferred stock: Our charter authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in one or more classes and to establish the preferences and rights of any class of preferred stock issued. These 27 Table of Contents actions can be taken without soliciting stockholder approval. Our preferred stock issuances could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ best interests. Maryland statutory law provides that an act of a director relating to or affecting an acquisition or a potential acquisition of control of a corporation may not be subject to a higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Hence, directors of a Maryland corporation are not required to act in takeover situations under the same standards as apply in Delaware and other corporate jurisdictions. Offerings of debt securities, which would be senior to our common stock and any preferred stock upon liquidation, or equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders’ holdings be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and any preferred stock. We may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, and classes of preferred stock or common stock or classes of preferred units. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities or preferred units and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of shares of preferred stock or common stock. Furthermore, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock or preferred units and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common or preferred stock or both. Our preferred stock or preferred units could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our securities and diluting their securities holdings in us. Securities eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on the market price of our securities. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of securities, or the availability of securities for future sales, on the market price of our outstanding securities. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our securities. We also may issue from time to time additional securities or units of our operating partnership in connection with the acquisition of properties and we may grant additional demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities or the perception that such sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our securities or may impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional debt or equity securities. We depend on key personnel with long-standing business relationships. The loss of key personnel could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our management team. In particular, the lodging industry experience of Messrs. Archie and Montgomery Bennett, Kessler, Brooks, Kimichik, and Nunneley and the extent and nature of the relationships they have developed with hotel franchisors, operators, and owners and hotel lending and other financial institutions are critically important to the success of our business. We do not maintain key – person life insurance on any of our officers. Although these officers currently have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure their continued employment. The loss of services of one or more members of our corporate management team could harm our business and our prospects. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. A factor investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our securities is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share or unit price relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher dividend or interest rate on our securities or seek securities paying higher dividends or 28 Table of Contents interest. The market price of our securities is likely based on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments, income with respect to our properties, and our related distributions to stockholders and not from the market value or underlying appraised value of the properties or investments themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our securities. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our dividend rate, the market price of our common or preferred stock could decrease because potential investors may require a higher dividend yield on our common or preferred stock as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable-rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends. Our major policies, including our policies and practices with respect to investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, and REIT qualification and distributions, are determined by our Board of Directors. Although we have no present intention to do so, our Board of Directors may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our stockholders. Accordingly, our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies and the changes could harm our business, results of operations, and share price. Changes in our strategy or investment or leverage policy could expose us to greater credit risk and interest rate risk or could result in a more leveraged balance sheet. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies may have on our business, operating results, and stock price. However, the effects may be adverse. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 