Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and are subject to the risks of a new enterprise. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict how our business will develop. We have incurred annual operating losses since we commenced operations in 2002. Accordingly, we face the risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies, such as: • No history of profitability; • The evolving nature of the healthcare marketplace and the Medicare and Medicaid regulatory environment; • The risks of competition, technological change or evolving patient preferences; and • The sufficiency and availability of capital. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and earnings if Medicare changes, delays, reduces or denies reimbursement. We depend on the continued availability of reimbursement from federal and state healthcare programs and private insurance plans for products sold to our patients and members. Revenue from Medicare represented approximately 34%, 41% and 64% of our total revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The federal regulatory authorities periodically review and adjust reimbursement amounts. Any reduction in Medicare reimbursement currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) reduced Medicare reimbursement rates for diabetic testing supplies, effective in 2005. The reduction in reimbursement rates has had a negative impact on our revenues and earnings. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our earnings unless there was a corresponding increase in Medicare reimbursement. Our revenues and earnings could also be adversely affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts or by changes in co-payment amounts. Competitive bidding for DMEPOS and supplies may reduce our revenues and earnings. Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) required the establishment of a program for competitive bidding for certain items of DME and supplies. Under the competitive bidding program, suppliers that wish to offer certain items and services to people with Medicare will have to submit bids to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), indicating the prices at which they are willing to supply these items to beneficiaries. Currently Medicare, and beneficiaries, pay for items based on a fee schedule that, in general, is based on the average payments Medicare has paid for Durable Medical Equipment Prosthetics/Orthotics and Supplies (DMEPOS) items in the past. The first phase of competitive bidding, which is expected to be effective as of July 1, 2008 and continue through March 31, 2010, and includes 10 metropolitan areas (known as competitive bid areas or CBAs), includes mail order diabetic supplies. Currently, approximately 4% of our diabetes customer base resides in the 10 CBAs included in the first phase of competitive bidding. CMS has also proposed a national competitive bid for mail order diabetic supplies for 2010. Competitive bidding will likely affect the mail order diabetic supply market in two ways. First, the amount reimbursed by Medicare for mail order diabetic supplies will be reduced. In March 2008, CMS announced that the Medicare reimbursement for mail order diabetic supplies will be reduced by approximately 43% for the 10 CBAs in the first phase of competitive bidding. Second, the number of suppliers will be reduced due to the competitive bid process, as CMS will award contracts only to those suppliers who meet the applicable bidding and qualitative criteria. Our operating results may be impacted due to the reduction in the Medicare’s reimbursement for mail order diabetic supplies and will be impacted if our bid is not selected for national competitive bidding related to mail order diabetic supplies. 5 Table of Contents We have invested significant capital and dedicated substantial resources to launch our insurance services to Medicare prescription drug and managed care providers, which may not be successful. Our ability to profit from our investment in our Insurance Services segment depends upon many factors, including the ability of CIGNA to maintain their Medicare approved status; our ability to secure contracts to provide services to other Medicare prescription drug and managed care providers; accuracy of projections with respect to Part D enrollment and market opportunities; our ability to maintain our existing patient base and our patients’ desire to take advantage of Part D services; our dependence on key personnel; continued access to enrollment bases; and changes in Medicare, Medicaid, Tricare, Champus and any other state or national-based reimbursement program. Revenue from CIGNA represented approximately 38%, 40% and 12% of total revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We have been in negotiations with CIGNA to further amend our agreement relating to the services we provide to, and the compensation we receive from, CIGNA beginning in 2009. We believe this amendment will extend the term of the agreement through 2012, but reduce the number of services we provide to CIGNA and the corresponding fees associated with the services. These negotiations have not been finalized. If CIGNA should fail to continue offering its CIGNA Medicare Rx Medicare Part D program for any reason or if CMS should fail to approve CIGNA’s Medicare Part D plans in future years, or if CIGNA chooses a different vendor to provide services we currently provide, our ability to generate revenue and profit from our Insurance Services segment would be significantly impaired. If we do not have sufficient capital to fund additional advertising and/or acquisitions, our ability to grow our business will be substantially diminished. The revenue from our Medical Products business has been attributable, in large part, to the acquisition of new patients primarily from television advertising, which is dependent on the availability of capital to fund such advertising. At this stage in our development, we believe our medical product sales can be increased through additional advertising or through the acquisition of the assets of small medical businesses, including patient lists. If we do not have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising or acquisitions, our ability to maintain or grow our business will be substantially diminished. We can provide no assurance that we will have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising or acquisitions, or that if we sought to raise additional capital from third parties through debt or equity financings, that such capital would be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to grow our business and manage growth successfully, we may not achieve profitability. We have focused on expanding our operations rapidly. This expansion has created significant demands on our operational and administrative personnel and other resources, particularly our need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets could strain these resources and increase our need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. The profitability of our Medical Products business will decrease if we do not receive recurring orders from patients. Due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with the initial patient qualification, we generally incur losses and negative cash flow with respect to the first order for supplies from a patient. Accordingly, the profitability of our Medical Products business depends on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control, including changing patient preferences, competitive price pressures, patient transition to extended care facilities, patient mortality and general economic conditions. 6 Table of Contents We could experience significantly reduced revenues and profit from sales of diabetes products if improved technologies developed for glucose monitoring eliminate the need for consumable testing supplies. Approximately 48%, 48% and 56% of our revenue for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, was from the sale of consumable diabetic testing supplies. Patients use these supplies to draw and test small quantities of blood for the purpose of measuring and monitoring glucose levels. Numerous research efforts are underway to develop more convenient and less intrusive glucose measurement techniques. The commercialization and widespread acceptance of new technologies that eliminate or reduce the need for consumable testing supplies could negatively affect sales in this market segment. Due to our size and limited operating history, we depend substantially on certain key personnel. Due to our size and limited operating history, our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse effect on us. While none of our key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals may be disruptive to our business. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled management personnel. Competition within the healthcare industry for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to us. Certain executive officers have rights under employment agreements that could require us to make substantial payments to them. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Glenn M. Parker, M.D. and our President and Chief Information Officer, Lewis P. Stone, and, prior to December 16, 2005, with Robert Gregg, who served as our Chief Operating Officer until October 5, 2005. Besides the severance provisions, which provide for severance payments in the event of termination of the key person by us or by the key person for “good reason” equal to two times their current salary for Dr. Parker and Mr. Stone, these employment agreements provide that if we or the key person terminate employment in several specified events, that key person has the right to cause us to repurchase a number of shares of our common stock owned by the key person with a value of up to $3,000,000 based on then current market prices. Alternatively, we may elect to sell these shares of common stock to third parties or to register the resale of these shares. In the event a sale or registration results in proceeds less than the key person is to receive related to their right to sell, then we shall pay to the key person the difference between the requested dollar amount and the proceeds of the sale. The occurrence of either of these events could materially and adversely affect us as it may require us to make large cash payments to these individuals, thus reducing the amount of cash available to us. 7 Table of Contents On December 16, 2005, we entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release with Mr. Gregg terminating his employment as of that date. In addition to severance payments of $1.15 million, the separation agreement affirmed Mr. Gregg’s ability to exercise his put right under his employment agreement to request that we arrange for the purchase by a third party of up to $3,000,000 worth of NationsHealth common stock from Mr. Gregg. Mr. Gregg has the right to require us to purchase up to $3,000,000 worth of his NationsHealth common stock held by RGGPLS LLC (“RGGPLS”), the controlling stockholder of NationsHealth, on Mr. Gregg’s behalf, provided that we are not required to purchase more than $1,500,000 worth of such common stock in any calendar year. Under certain circumstances, we may pay such amounts over a period of up to three years. In lieu of a cash payment, we have the option to register such common stock for sale pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or to sell such common stock pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the Act. On April 4, 2007, Mr. Gregg partially exercised his Put Right to require us to purchase $750,000 of our common stock beneficially owned by Mr. Gregg, representing 500,000 shares based on the closing price of $1.50 per share on the trading day prior to the put notice. We notified Mr. Gregg of our intention to cause such shares to be sold, as promptly as is reasonably practicable, pursuant to a registration statement under the Act, or pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Act. To the extent that these put shares are sold at a price less than the price on the date of the put, we will be required to make a cash payment to Mr. Gregg for such shortfall amount. On July 16, 2007, in connection with RGGPLS’s transfer to Mr. Gregg of 288,000 shares of the our common stock, Mr. Gregg executed an acknowledgement that the proceeds from any sale by him of the 288,000 shares in the open market or to any third party shall satisfy a portion of our obligation pursuant to the Put Right equal to the number of shares sold multiplied by the per share price based on a 20-day average price. Based upon shares sold by Mr. Gregg to date and the remaining shares under the April 4, 2007 put, we have accrued approximately $398,000 at December 31, 2007 related to the estimated shortfall from the price on the date of the put, which is due to Mr. Gregg upon the sale of the entire 500,000 shares. If any of our information technology platforms malfunction, our business and profitability may be seriously harmed. Our business relies on proprietary information technology platforms that support the individual enrollment of new medical supplies patients and Medicare Part D enrollees, fulfillment services, document generation and collection, and patient and enrollee management. In addition, we use information technology platforms that provide us with electronic connectivity to a large number of pharmacies, shipping vendors and billing services. Due to the relatively high volume, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to transact business profitably. In addition, due to the highly regulated nature of the Medicare billing and payment process, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to be able to operate our business. A malfunction of the information technology systems will be disruptive to our business operations and, based on the duration of such malfunction, could result in reduced sales or profitability and the possible loss of patients. We may have difficulties in achieving volume-based discounts or finding replacement supplies if we lose any agreement with our suppliers of medical products. We receive volume-based discounts under certain of our agreements with suppliers of medical products. These discounts favorably impact our gross margins. Any failure to achieve or sustain volume-based discounts under these supply agreements would negatively affect our profitability. In addition, many of the supply agreements that we have with our suppliers are terminable without cause upon the giving of a specified number of days’ advance written notice. In the event that one or more of these suppliers elects to terminate their supply agreements, we may have difficulties in finding replacement suppliers, which may prevent us from purchasing a sufficient amount of supplies to satisfy the demands of our patients. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry If we do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from selling our products and could experience significantly reduced revenues and profit. The majority of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and reimbursed by other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of sales of products or a recall or ceases to pay for certain supplies, we may lose sales and incur expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. As a Medicare supplier, we are subject to extensive regulation including, but not limited to, the DME supplier standards and the federal healthcare program anti-fraud and abuse laws. While we believe that our current and contemplated future operations materially comply with applicable regulatory requirements, there are a number of common practices in the industry where the law is unsettled, and there is no case law or definitive statements by the regulatory authorities concerning such practices. Specifically, we, like many providers of diabetes supplies, obtain glucose monitors from certain manufacturers without charge and, in turn, provide them to Medicare beneficiaries without charge. These practices potentially implicate the federal Anti-kickback Statute and the civil money penalty provision that prohibit payments made to induce Medicare beneficiaries to purchase, order or arrange any good or service for which payment could potentially be made under a federal healthcare program. Additionally, the Medicare anti-telemarketing law could potentially be implicated by our practice of calling Medicare beneficiaries based on such beneficiaries’ initial telephone calls to an outsourced third party call-center. In each case, we have evaluated the practices at issue and believe that we are in compliance with applicable requirements. However, we cannot offer complete assurances that such practices could not be challenged by government enforcement agencies. Any such challenge, regardless of whether successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any negligence or mistake we make in processing Medicare reimbursement claims could lead to recoupment of past payments and/or our suspension from the Medicare program. We are also subject to state laws and regulations, including those governing pharmacy licensing and DME supplier licensing, which are extensive and costly. Although we believe we are in compliance with such state laws and regulations in all material respects, our failure to comply or failure to continue to comply with these state laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business. Any violation of the above-described federal and state laws may result in penalties that include loss or prohibition of payment for services, loss of licenses, fines, and other civil or criminal penalties, including exclusion from governmental programs. The cost of efforts to comply with HIPAA regulations and the possible consequence of non-compliance could adversely affect our operations and profit significantly. HIPAA is comprised of several components that apply to certain aspects of our business, portions of which would be considered a “covered entity.” If we do not continue to comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information we may face potential criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. 9 Table of Contents Our accounts receivable are subject to significant collection risk due to third-party payors. Seeking reimbursement from third-party payors is subject to rigorous requirements and involves complicated paperwork. This may result in us suffering extremely long collection times, or not collecting at all, on a significant portion of our accounts receivable. If we are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors, where permitted, we may seek payment of the entire account receivable from our patient, who may not be financially capable of making the payment. Additionally, if any third-party payor conducts a post-payment audit, the audit determination may materially adversely affect us if we are required to refund significant sums of money. Our business could suffer from rising insurance costs, the unavailability of insurance or other events. The cost of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ insurance, workers’ compensation, product liability, business interruption and general liability insurance, continues to represent a significant expense to us. In response, within the purview of Medicare guidance, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease some coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The sale of medical supply products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims against us which could be expensive to resolve regardless of the outcome. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, product liability insurance is expensive and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if it is available at all, particularly for certain classes of products. A claim brought against us, even if covered by our insurance policies, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As most of our operations are located in southern Florida, on an annual basis we are faced with the possibility of incurring damages or business disruption as a result of a hurricane. Business interruption insurance is expensive and may not be available in amounts that will fully protect us from such occurrences, whether caused by casualties such as hurricanes or fire, or other events, which may or may not be within our control. Risks Related to Owning Our Equity Securities Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Most of the original shares of our common stock issued in the merger of Millstream Acquisition Corporation and NationsHealth Holdings, LLC were issued as restricted securities within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and have not been registered for resale in the public market. However, these restricted securities, if such shares have not already become freely tradeable, are now eligible for resale under Rule 144, subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, there were warrants and options outstanding, including the underwriter’s option, to purchase 4,772,069 shares of common stock and notes outstanding which are convertible into 2,286,585 shares of common stock. Consequently, at various times in the future, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 10 Table of Contents Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and affiliates control the rights to vote a majority of our common stock. These stockholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace rules. As such, we are exempt from NASDAQ’s requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors, our board nominations to be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of our independent directors and our compensation committee to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not receive the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all NASDAQ requirements. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission rules promulgated thereunder require that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal control to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, our continued assessment, or the subsequent assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control, which may need to be disclosed in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Disclosures of this type could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business and operations. Compliance with changing regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and revised NASDAQ Stock Market rules, have required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses as well as a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 11 Table of Contents Our common stock may continue to have a volatile public trading price and low trading volume. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2003 through March 26, 2008, the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market has ranged between $8.33 and $0.13. We may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in the future for many reasons, some of which may be unrelated to our operating performance. Many factors may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock, including: • Public announcements by us, our competitors or others • Regulatory developments concerning the availability of reimbursement pursuant to Medicare • Public concern about the safety or efficacy of pharmaceuticals • General market conditions and comments by securities analysts • Quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and financial results • Low trading volume associated with the number of shares that are publicly traded Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. We are subject to various legal and contractual provisions that may make a change in control of us more difficult. Our board of directors has the flexibility to adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If the board of directors exercises this power to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter also provides staggered terms for the members of our board of directors. This may prevent stockholders from replacing the entire board in a single proxy contest, making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors. Our equity incentive plans generally permit our board of directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of equity awards granted under these plans in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors used its authority to accelerate vesting of outstanding equity awards, then this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors could use this provision to prevent changes in management. The provisions described above, as well as other provisions in our charter and bylaws and under the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, even if the acquisition attempt was at a premium over the market value of our common stock at that time. If our common stock continues to trade at a per share price of less than $1.00, our common stock will be subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. On October 2, 2007, we were advised by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department that, for at least 30 consecutive business days, the closing bid price of our common stock was below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Capital Market under Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4). We were provided until March 31, 2008 to regain compliance with this rule and, during this time, we will continue to trade on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “NHRX.” If at any time before March 31, 2008, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 or more per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, the NASDAQ Staff will re-evaluate if we comply with the rule. As of March 26, 2008, we had not regained compliance with the rule and the closing price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market was $0.20 per share. 12 Table of Contents If compliance with the rule cannot be demonstrated by March 31, 2008, the NASDAQ Staff will determine whether we meet The NASDAQ Capital Market initial listing criteria as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c), except for the bid price requirement. If we meet the initial listing criteria, then the NASDAQ Staff will extend our compliance period by 180 days, and we will be deemed to be in compliance with the rule if the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 or more per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days at any time before September 27, 2008. If we do not meet the initial listing criteria and are therefore not eligible for an extended compliance period, then the NASDAQ Staff will notify us that our common stock will be delisted. As of March 26, 2008, we believe that the Company does not currently meet the initial listing requirements. Prior to our common stock being delisted, however, we will be given the opportunity to appeal to a Listing Qualifications Panel the NASDAQ Staff’s determination to delist our common stock and the potential delisting will be subject to the result of any such appeal. We are currently evaluating alternatives to resolve the listing deficiency. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, then the trading price of our common stock would likely be adversely impacted. Additionally, delisting could reduce the liquidity of any investment in our common stock, which would adversely impact our stockholders’ ability to purchase or sell shares of our common stock. Further, a lack of liquidity may impair our ability to raise capital in the future which, in the event additional capital is required to operate our business plan, could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 