Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and are subject to the risks of a new enterprise. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict how our business will develop. We have incurred annual operating losses since we commenced operations in 2002. Furthermore, in 2005 we launched a new Insurance Services segment. Accordingly, we face the risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies, such as: • No history of profitability; • The evolving nature of the healthcare marketplace and the Medicare regulatory environment; • The risks of competition, technological change or evolving patient preferences; and • The sufficiency and availability of capital. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and earnings if Medicare changes, delays, reduces or denies reimbursement. We depend on the continued availability of reimbursement from federal and state healthcare programs and private insurance plans for products sold to our patients and members. Revenue from Medicare represented approximately 41%, 64% and 77% of our total revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The federal regulatory authorities periodically review and adjust reimbursement amounts. Any reduction in Medicare reimbursement currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) reduced Medicare reimbursement rates for diabetic testing supplies, effective in 2005. The reduction in reimbursement rates has had a negative impact on our revenues and earnings. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our earnings unless there was a corresponding increase in Medicare reimbursement. Our revenues and earnings could also be adversely affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts or by changes in co-payment amounts. 7 Table of Contents Competitive bidding for DME and supplies may reduce our revenues and earnings. The MMA required the establishment of a program for competitive bidding for certain covered items of DME and supplies, which is currently expected to include certain diabetic testing supplies and equipment and nebulizers in certain areas of the United States referred to as Competitive Bid Areas (CBAs). However, the final CMS regulation has yet to be released. The competitive bidding program would change the way that Medicare selects suppliers and pays for items in selected competitively bid product groups under Part B of the Medicare program. Medicare will utilize bids submitted by Durable Medical Equipment Prosthetics/Orthotics and Supplies (DMEPOS) suppliers to establish applicable payment amounts and select suppliers that will furnish items included in competitively bid product groups in the CBAs. The competitively bid product groups will include those that the Medicare program identifies as having the highest potential for savings. The product groups that will be included in competitive bidding will likely include products that we supply, including diabetic supplies. We plan to bid on contracts anywhere CMS decides to implement CBAs. Should our bids not be accepted so that we are a noncontract supplier in one or more CBAs, we would be prohibited from seeking payment from Medicare beneficiaries whose permanent residence is located in CBAs for items included in the competitive bidding program (with some immaterial exceptions). The Medicare program is also proposing to introduce a regional or national mail order DMEPOS competitive bidding program in 2010 for certain items such as diabetic testing supplies. Prior to the implementation of the national competitive bidding program, it is proposed that mail order suppliers be eligible to submit bids for furnishing items in one or more of the CBAs. Additionally, mail order suppliers would be eligible to submit bids in one or more CBAs to supply items that are not included in the national competitive bidding program. The suppliers could submit one bid for each CBA or separate bids. The mail order supply portion of our business is substantial; therefore, implementation of this proposal and our failure to receive contracts could have a substantially negative effect on our operating results. The Medicare program expects to phase in these programs over a number of years beginning in 2007 and 2008, with the initial phase occurring in up to ten of the largest metropolitan service areas, or MSAs, except for New York, New York, Chicago, Illinois and Los Angeles, California, which will not be phased in until 2009. The areas affected will likely expand in 2009, occurring in up to 80 large MSAs, and additional areas will be included after 2009. This program may result in a reduction of payments for our supplies, which would negatively affect our operating results. We have invested significant capital and dedicated substantial resources to launch our insurance services to Medicare prescription drug and managed care providers, which may not be successful. Our ability to profit from our investment in our Insurance Services segment depends upon many factors, including the ability of CIGNA to maintain their Medicare approved status; our ability to secure contracts to provide services to other Medicare prescription drug and managed care providers; accuracy of projections with respect to Part D enrollment and market opportunities; our ability to maintain our existing patient base and our patients’ desire to take advantage of Part D services; our dependence on key personnel; continued access to enrollment bases; and changes in Medicare, Medicaid, Tricare, Champus and any other state or national-based reimbursement program. Revenue from CIGNA represented approximately 40% and 12% of total revenue in 2006 and 2005, respectively. If CIGNA should fail to continue offering its CIGNATURE Rx Medicare Part D program for any reason or if CMS should fail to approve CIGNA’s Medicare Part D plans in future years, our ability to generate revenue and profit from our Insurance Services segment would be significantly impaired. 8 Table of Contents If we do not have sufficient capital to fund additional advertising and patient acquisitions, our ability to grow our business will be substantially diminished. The revenue from our Medical Products business has been attributable, in large part, to the acquisition of new patients primarily from television advertising, which is dependent on the availability of capital to fund such advertising. At this stage in our development, we believe our medical product sales can be increased through additional advertising or patient list acquisitions. If we do not have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising or patient list acquisitions, our ability to maintain or grow our business will be substantially diminished. We can provide no assurance that we will have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising or patient acquisitions, or that if we sought to raise additional capital from third parties through debt or equity financings, that such capital would be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to grow our business and manage growth successfully, we may not achieve profitability. We have focused on expanding our operations rapidly. This expansion has created significant demands on our operational and administrative personnel and other resources, particularly our need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets could strain these resources and increase our need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. The profitability of our Medical Products business will decrease if we do not receive recurring orders from patients. Due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with the initial patient qualification, we generally incur losses and negative cash flow with respect to the first order for supplies from a patient. Accordingly, the profitability of our Medical Products business depends on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control, including changing patient preferences, competitive price pressures, patient transition to extended care facilities, patient mortality and general economic conditions. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and profit from sales of diabetes products if improved technologies developed for glucose monitoring eliminate the need for consumable testing supplies. Approximately 48%, 56% and 45% of our revenue for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, was from the sale of consumable diabetic testing supplies. Patients use these supplies to draw and test small quantities of blood for the purpose of measuring and monitoring glucose levels. Numerous research efforts are underway to develop more convenient and less intrusive glucose measurement techniques. The commercialization and widespread acceptance of new technologies that eliminate or reduce the need for consumable testing supplies could negatively affect sales in this market segment. 9 Table of Contents Due to our size and limited operating history, we depend substantially on certain key personnel. Due to our size and limited operating history, our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse effect on us. While none of our key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals may be disruptive to our business. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled management personnel. Competition within the healthcare industry for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to us. Certain executive officers have rights under employment agreements that could require us to make substantial payments to them. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Glenn M. Parker, M.D. and our President and Chief Information Officer, Lewis P. Stone, and, prior to December 16, 2005, with Robert Gregg, who served as our Chief Operating Officer until October 5, 2005. Besides the severance provisions, which provide for severance payments in the event of termination of the key person by us or by the key person for “good reason” equal to two times their current salary for Dr. Parker and Mr. Stone, these employment agreements provide that if we or the key person terminate employment in several specified events, that key person has the right to cause us to repurchase a number of shares of our common stock owned by the key person with a value of up to $3,000,000 based on then current market prices. Alternatively, we may elect to sell these shares of common stock to third parties or to register the resale of these shares. In the event a sale or registration results in proceeds less than the key person is to receive related to their right to sell, then we shall pay to the key person the difference between the requested dollar amount and the proceeds of the sale. The occurrence of either of these events could materially and adversely affect us as it may require us to make large cash payments to these individuals, thus reducing the amount of cash available to us. On December 16, 2005, we entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release with Mr. Gregg terminating his employment as of that date. In addition to severance payments of $1.15 million, the separation agreement affirmed Mr. Gregg’s ability to exercise his put right under his employment agreement to request that we arrange for the purchase by a third party of up to $3,000,000 worth of NationsHealth common stock from Mr. Gregg. Mr. Gregg has the right to require us to purchase up to $3,000,000 worth of his NationsHealth common stock for cash, provided that we are not required to purchase more than $1,500,000 worth of such common stock in any calendar year. Under certain circumstances, we may pay such amounts over a period of up to three years. In lieu of a cash payment, we have the option to register such common stock for sale pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or to sell such common stock pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the Act. To date, Mr. Gregg has not exercised his Put Right to require us to purchase any amount of his common stock. If any of our information technology platforms malfunction, our business and profitability may be seriously harmed. Our business relies on proprietary information technology platforms that support the individual enrollment of new medical supplies patients and Medicare Part D enrollees, fulfillment services, prescription discount administration, document generation and collection, and patient and enrollee management. In addition, we use information technology platforms that provide us with electronic 10 Table of Contents connectivity to a large number of pharmacies, shipping vendors and billing services. Due to the relatively high volume, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to transact business profitably. In addition, due to the highly regulated nature of the Medicare billing and payment process, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to be able to operate our business. A malfunction of the information technology systems will be disruptive to our business operations and, based on the duration of such malfunction, could result in reduced sales or profitability and the possible loss of patients. We may have difficulties in achieving volume-based discounts or finding replacement supplies if we lose any agreement with our suppliers of medical products. We receive volume-based discounts under certain of our agreements with suppliers of medical products. These discounts favorably impact our gross margins. Any failure to achieve or sustain volume-based discounts under these supply agreements would negatively affect our profitability. In addition, many of the supply agreements that we have with our suppliers are terminable without cause upon the giving of a specified number of days’ advance written notice. In the event that one or more of these suppliers elects to terminate their supply agreements, we may have difficulties in finding replacement suppliers, which may prevent us from purchasing a sufficient amount of supplies to satisfy the demands of our patients. Risks Related to Our Industry If we do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from selling our products and could experience significantly reduced revenues and profit. The majority of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and reimbursed by other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of sales of products or a recall or ceases to pay for certain supplies, we may lose sales and incur expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. As a Medicare supplier, we are subject to extensive regulation including, but not limited to, the DME supplier standards and the federal healthcare program anti-fraud and abuse laws. While we believe that our current and contemplated future operations materially comply with applicable regulatory requirements, there are a number of common practices in the industry where the law is unsettled, and there is no case law or definitive statements by the regulatory authorities concerning such practices. Specifically, we, like many providers of diabetes supplies, obtain glucose monitors from certain manufacturers without charge and, in turn, provide them to Medicare beneficiaries without charge. These practices potentially implicate the federal Anti-kickback Statute and the civil money penalty provision that prohibit payments made to induce Medicare beneficiaries to purchase, order or arrange any good or service for which payment could potentially be made under a federal healthcare program. Additionally, the Medicare anti-telemarketing law could potentially be implicated by our practice of calling Medicare beneficiaries based on such beneficiaries’ initial telephone calls to an outsourced third party call-center. Further, our retail initiative could also potentially raise questions about our role and the role of the retail pharmacy under the Medicare DME supplier standards. In each case, we have evaluated the practices at issue and believe that we are in compliance with applicable requirements. However, we cannot offer complete assurances that such practices could not be challenged by government enforcement agencies. Any such challenge, regardless of whether successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents In addition, any negligence or mistake we make in processing Medicare reimbursement claims could lead to recoupment of past payments and/or our suspension from the Medicare program. We are also subject to state laws and regulations, including those governing pharmacy licensing and DME supplier licensing, which are extensive and costly. Although we believe we are in compliance with such state laws and regulations in all material respects, our failure to comply or failure to continue to comply with these state laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business. Any violation of the above-described federal and state laws may result in penalties that include loss or prohibition of payment for services, loss of licenses, fines, and other civil or criminal penalties, including exclusion from governmental programs. The cost of efforts to comply with HIPAA regulations and the possible consequence of non-compliance could adversely affect our operations and profit significantly. HIPAA is comprised of several components that apply to certain aspects of our business, portions of which would be considered a “covered entity.” If we do not continue to comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information we may face potential criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. Our accounts receivable are subject to significant collection risk due to third-party payors. Seeking reimbursement from third-party payors is subject to rigorous requirements and involves complicated paperwork. This may result in us suffering extremely long collection times, or not collecting at all, on a significant portion of our accounts receivable. If we are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors, where permitted, we may seek payment of the entire account receivable from our patient, who may not be financially capable of making the payment. Additionally, if any third-party payor conducts a post-payment audit, the audit determination may materially adversely affect us if we are required to refund significant sums of money. Our business could suffer from rising insurance costs, the unavailability of insurance or other events. The cost of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ insurance, workers’ compensation, product liability, business interruption and general liability insurance, continues to represent a significant expense to us. In response, within the purview of Medicare guidance, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease some coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The sale of medical supply products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims against us which could be expensive to resolve regardless of the outcome. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, product liability insurance is expensive and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if it is available at all, particularly for certain classes of products. A claim brought against us, even if covered by our insurance policies, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents As most of our operations are located in southern Florida, on an annual basis we are faced with the possibility of incurring damages or business disruption as a result of a hurricane. Business interruption insurance is expensive and may not be available in amounts that will fully protect us from such occurrences, whether caused by casualties such as hurricanes or fire, or other events, which may or may not be within our control. Risks Related to Owning Our Equity Securities Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. There were 21,375,000 shares of our common stock issued in the Millstream merger, of which, as of December 31, 2006, 1,802,977 were registered for sale in the public market. All of the remaining 19,572,023 shares are restricted securities within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, but are eligible for resale under Rule 144 subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. On August 18, 2005, 273,897 shares of our common stock were issued to US Bioservices Corporation for $1,500,000 to fulfill our capital contribution obligation related to the formation of NationsHealth Specialty Rx. Additionally, in conjunction with our agreement with CIGNA, on November 4, 2005 we issued to CIGNA, 303,030 shares of our common stock for $6.60 per share, or approximately $2,000,000, and warrants to purchase an additional 2,936,450 shares of our common stock at $6.60 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, there were warrants, including CIGNA’s warrants, and options, including the underwriter’s option, outstanding to purchase 12,290,032 shares of common stock and notes outstanding which are convertible into 2,286,585 shares of common stock. Moreover, 750,000 shares of Millstream common stock purchased by its stockholders prior to the initial public offering became eligible for resale in the public market, subject to compliance with applicable law, on August 25, 2006. Consequently, at various times in the future, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of such shares and of the warrants. Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and affiliates control the rights to vote a majority of our common stock. These stockholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace rules. As such, we are exempt from NASDAQ’s requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors, our board nominations to be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of our independent directors and our compensation committee to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not receive the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all NASDAQ requirements. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission rules promulgated thereunder require that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal control to allow management to report on, and in 2008 our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, our continued assessment, or the subsequent assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control, which may need to be disclosed in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Disclosures of this type could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business and operations. Compliance with changing regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and revised NASDAQ Stock Market rules, have required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses as well as a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our common stock may continue to have a volatile public trading price and low trading volume. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2003 through March 28, 2007, the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market has ranged between $8.33 and $1.05. We may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in the future for many reasons, some of which may be unrelated to our operating performance. Many factors may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock, including: • Public announcements by us, our competitors or others • Regulatory developments concerning the availability of reimbursement pursuant to Medicare • Public concern about the safety or efficacy of pharmaceuticals • General market conditions and comments by securities analysts • Quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and financial results • Low trading volume associated with the number of shares that are publicly traded 14 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. We are subject to various legal and contractual provisions that may make a change in control of us more difficult. Our board of directors has the flexibility to adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If the board of directors exercises this power to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter also provides staggered terms for the members of our board of directors. This may prevent stockholders from replacing the entire board in a single proxy contest, making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors. Our equity incentive plans generally permit our board of directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of equity awards granted under these plans in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors used its authority to accelerate vesting of outstanding equity awards, then this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors could use this provision to prevent changes in management. The provisions described above, as well as other provisions in our charter and bylaws and under the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, even if the acquisition attempt was at a premium over the market value of our common stock at that time. 