Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Our debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility contains covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to create liens supporting indebtedness, sell assets, make certain distributions, and incur additional debt. In addition, our credit facility contains, and those we enter into in the future may contain, financial covenants and other limitations with which we will need to comply. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by many events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient to comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default under any of our debt agreements, to remedy that default. 5 Table of Contents As of each month-end from June 30, 2008 through February 28, 2009, we were not in compliance with certain financial covenants under our credit facility and were thus in technical default of the credit agreement at such dates. We obtained waivers of our non-compliance with the financial covenants for all such periods from our credit facility lender, which eliminated the events of default, and our credit facility was amended to adjust the covenants for the remainder of 2009 to account for our actual and projected financial results. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit facility in the future could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, our lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facility to be immediately due and payable. As of December 31, 2008 the total balance outstanding under our credit facility was approximately $12.7 million. An event of default or acceleration under our credit facility could also cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of our $15 million convertible notes. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of our credit facility alone. If an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of the debt outstanding to us, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding under such debt agreements. Additionally, terms under the credit facility could restrict our ability to dispose of assets, repay other indebtedness, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay subordinated indebtedness, incur liens, make capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, engage in mergers or consolidations, engage in transactions with affiliates and otherwise restrict our activities. Our ability to repay, extend or refinance our existing debt obligations and to obtain future credit would depend primarily on our operating performance, which would be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations would also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If we were unable to meet our debt service obligations or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. However, we may be unable to obtain such additional financing or consummate the sale of assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and earnings if Medicare changes, delays, reduces or denies reimbursement. We depend on the continued availability of reimbursement from federal and state healthcare programs and private insurance plans for products sold to our patients and members. Revenue from Medicare represented approximately 30%, 34% and 41% of our total revenue in the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The federal regulatory authorities periodically review and adjust reimbursement amounts. Any reduction in Medicare reimbursement currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) reduced Medicare reimbursement rates for diabetic testing supplies, effective in 2005. Additionally, the Medicare reimbursement rate for diabetic testing supplies furnished through the mail was reduced from the 2008 fee schedule rate by 9.5% effective January 1, 2009. The reduction in reimbursement rates in 2005 had a negative impact on our revenues and earnings and we expect the 2009 reduction to have a further negative impact on our revenues and earnings. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our earnings unless there was a corresponding increase in Medicare reimbursement. Our revenues and earnings could also be adversely affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts or by changes in co-payment amounts. 6 Table of Contents Competitive bidding for DMEPOS and supplies may reduce our revenues and earnings. The MMA required the establishment of a program for competitive bidding for certain items of DME and supplies. Under the competitive bidding program, suppliers that wish to offer certain items and services to people with Medicare will have to submit bids to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), indicating the prices at which they are willing to supply these items to beneficiaries. Currently Medicare, and beneficiaries, pay for items based on a fee schedule that, in general, is based on the average payments Medicare has paid for Durable Medical Equipment Prosthetics/Orthotics and Supplies (DMEPOS) items in the past. The first round of competitive bidding was expected to be effective as of July 1, 2008 for 10 metropolitan areas (known as competitive bid areas or CBAs). CMS had also proposed a national competitive bid for mail order diabetic supplies anticipated to be implemented in 2010 or sometime thereafter. In July 2008, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA) was enacted which, among other things, delayed competitive bidding for round 1, terminated the existing contracts awarded for round 1 of competitive bidding, required that the contracting process be restarted for round 1 in 2009 and pushed back any implementation of a national mail order bidding program until after 2010. To offset the delay in the effective date of competitive bidding, MIPPA instituted a 9.5% reduction in Medicare reimbursement from the 2008 rates effective January 1, 2009, for all product categories in round 1, including mail order diabetic supplies. The 9.5% reduction in reimbursement will result in lower Medicare reimbursement levels for our products in 2009 and beyond, and could impact the amounts that other payers will reimburse. On January 16, 2009, CMS issued an interim final rule implementing certain limited changes to the competitive bidding program mandated by MIPPA. This interim final rule became effective April 18, 2009, and incorporated into existing regulations specific statutory requirements contained in MIPPA related to the competitive bidding program but did not substantively alter the program. This rule sets the groundwork for CMS to begin the bidding process anew. During the comment period, CMS indicated that it received many suggestions by a range of stakeholders to make further improvements to the competitive bidding program, such as ensuring that CMS’s processes for collecting and evaluating bids are fair and transparent. CMS has stated that it will be issuing further guidance on the timeline for and bidding requirements related to the Round 1 re-bid, and will continue to seek input from all affected stakeholders to ensure program implementation consistent with the legislative requirements. If CMS includes mail order diabetic supplies in the competitive bidding program, the mail order diabetic supply market will likely be affected in two ways. First, Medicare reimbursement for diabetic testing supplies furnished to Medicare beneficiaries located in the CBAs will likely be reduced, perhaps significantly. Second, the number of diabetic testing suppliers that currently furnish testing supplies to Medicare beneficiaries located in the CBAs will likely be reduced due to the competitive bidding process. Further, it is possible that CMS will implement a national mail order competitive bidding program for diabetic testing supplies after 2010. If the agency implements such a program, our business will be significantly impacted if we are not selected as a contract supplier. The results of our Insurance Services segment are heavily dependent on revenue derived under our agreement with CIGNA. Services to CIGNA comprise a significant portion of our Insurance Services segment. Revenue from CIGNA comprises approximately 91% of our service revenue and represented approximately 31%, 38% and 40% of total revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 7 Table of Contents On May 1, 2008, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Preferred Vendor Agreement with CIGNA (the “Second Amendment”), which was amended effective February 25, 2009 (the “Amended Second Amendment”). The Second Amendment amends and restates the amended and restated preferred vendor agreement entered into on May 26, 2006, extends the term of the agreement through September 30, 2012 and automatically renews for additional one-year periods, unless notice is received from the other party by July 1, 2012, or any subsequent renewal year. As part of the Second Amendment, we will provide more focused member facing services, including telephonic enrollment, member services, grievance management and billing customer service, but will no longer provide services relating to membership reconciliation, mail room monitoring and document processing, financial reconciliation, premium billing and collection and member correspondence fulfillment. The Amended Second Amendment provides that CIGNA must provide us with at least 30 days notice before transitioning to the more focused services. To date, CIGNA has not provided us with the 30-day required notice, and we currently expect such services to begin no earlier than June 2009. In connection with the Second Amendment, the compensatory terms related to the current services have been reduced for the period November 2008 through the transition date. Furthermore, the compensation related to the services provided following the transition date will be reduced to reflect the reduction in overall services that we will provide to CIGNA. As a result of reduced revenue from CIGNA, we expect the profitability of our Insurance Services segment to decrease by approximately 70% to 80% on a per member-served basis beginning on the transition date. Additionally, if CIGNA should fail to continue offering its CIGNA Medicare Rx Medicare Part D program for any reason or if the CMS should fail to approve CIGNA’s Medicare Part D plans in future years, or if CIGNA chooses a different vendor to provide services we currently provide or will provide after the transition date, revenue and profit of our Insurance Services segment would be adversely impacted. If we do not have sufficient capital to fund additional advertising and/or acquisitions, our ability to grow our business will be substantially diminished. The revenue from our Medical Products business has been attributable, in large part, to the acquisition of new patients primarily from television advertising, which is dependent on the availability of capital to fund such advertising and through the acquisition of the assets of small medical businesses, including patient lists. If we do not have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising or acquisitions, our ability to maintain or grow our business will be substantially diminished. We can provide no assurance that we will have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising or acquisitions, or that if we sought to raise additional capital from third parties through debt or equity financings, that such capital would be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to grow our business and manage growth successfully, we may not achieve profitability. We have focused on expanding our operations rapidly. This expansion has created significant demands on our operational and administrative personnel and other resources, particularly our need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets could strain these resources and increase our need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. 8 Table of Contents The profitability of our Medical Products business will decrease if we do not receive recurring orders from patients. Due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with the initial patient qualification, we generally incur losses and negative cash flow with respect to the first order for supplies from a patient. Accordingly, the profitability of our Medical Products business depends on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control, including changing patient preferences, competitive price pressures, patient transition to extended care facilities, patient mortality and general economic conditions. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and profit from sales of diabetes products if improved technologies developed for glucose monitoring eliminate the need for consumable testing supplies. Approximately 48% of our revenue for 2008, 2007 and 2006, was from the sale of consumable diabetic testing supplies. Patients use these supplies to draw and test small quantities of blood for the purpose of measuring and monitoring glucose levels. Numerous research efforts are underway to develop more convenient and less intrusive glucose measurement techniques. The commercialization and widespread acceptance of new technologies that eliminate or reduce the need for consumable testing supplies could negatively affect sales in this market segment. Due to our size and limited operating history, we depend substantially on certain key personnel. Due to our size and limited operating history, our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse effect on us. While none of our key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals may be disruptive to our business. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled management personnel. Competition within the healthcare industry for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to us. Certain executive officers have rights under employment agreements that could require us to make substantial payments to them. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Glenn M. Parker, M.D., and our Chief Information Officer, Lewis P. Stone. These employment agreements provide that if we or the key person terminate employment in several specified events, that key person has the right to cause us to repurchase a number of shares of our common stock owned by the key person with a value of up to $3,000,000 based on then current market prices. Alternatively, we may elect to sell these shares of common stock to third parties or to register the resale of these shares. In the event a sale or registration results in proceeds less than the key person is to receive related to their right to sell, then we shall pay to the key person the difference between the requested dollar amount and the proceeds of the sale. The occurrence of either of these events could materially and adversely affect us as it may require us to make large cash payments to these individuals, thus reducing the amount of cash available to us. The employment agreement with Dr. Parker also provides for severance payments equal to two times his current salary in the event of his termination by us or by him for “good reason.” 9 Table of Contents If any of our information technology platforms malfunction, our business and profitability may be seriously harmed. Our business relies on proprietary information technology platforms that support the individual enrollment of new medical supplies patients and Medicare Part D enrollees, fulfillment services, document generation and collection, and patient and enrollee management. In addition, we use information technology platforms that provide us with electronic connectivity to a large number of pharmacies, shipping vendors and billing services. Due to the relatively high volume, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to transact business profitably. In addition, due to the highly regulated nature of the Medicare billing and payment process, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to be able to operate our business. A malfunction of the information technology systems will be disruptive to our business operations and, based on the duration of such malfunction, could result in reduced sales or profitability and the possible loss of patients. We may have difficulties in achieving volume-based discounts or finding replacement supplies if we lose any agreement with our suppliers of medical products. We receive volume-based discounts under certain of our agreements with suppliers of medical products. These discounts favorably impact our gross margins. Any failure to achieve or sustain volume-based discounts under these supply agreements would negatively affect our profitability. In addition, many of the supply agreements that we have with our suppliers are terminable without cause upon the giving of a specified number of days’ advance written notice. In the event that one or more of these suppliers elects to terminate their supply agreements, we may have difficulties in finding replacement suppliers, which may prevent us from purchasing a sufficient amount of supplies to satisfy the demands of our patients. Risks Related to Our Industry If we do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from selling our products and could experience significantly reduced revenues and profit. The majority of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and reimbursed by other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of sales of products or a recall or ceases to pay for certain supplies, we may lose sales and incur expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. As a Medicare supplier, we are subject to extensive regulation including, but not limited to, the DME supplier standards and the federal healthcare program anti-fraud and abuse laws. While we believe that our current and contemplated future operations materially comply with applicable regulatory requirements, there are a number of common practices in the industry where the law is unsettled or altogether silent. Specifically, we, like many providers of diabetes supplies, obtain glucose monitors from certain manufacturers without charge and, in turn, provide them to Medicare beneficiaries without charge. These practices potentially implicate the federal Anti-kickback Statute and the civil money penalty provision that prohibit payments intended to induce Medicare beneficiaries to purchase, order or arrange any good or service for which payment could potentially be made under a federal healthcare program. Additionally, the Medicare anti-telemarketing law could potentially be implicated by our practice of calling Medicare beneficiaries based on such beneficiaries’ initial telephone calls to an outsourced third party call-center. In each case, we have evaluated the practices at issue and believe that we are in compliance with applicable requirements. However, we cannot offer complete assurances that such practices will not be challenged by government enforcement agencies. Any such challenge, regardless of whether successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents In addition, any negligence or mistake we make in processing Medicare reimbursement claims could lead to recoupment of past payments and/or our suspension from the Medicare program. CMS and other federal agencies have focused on fraud and abuse in the DME industry for the past several years, including additional scrutiny on those DME suppliers located in South Florida, and additional efforts on the part of these federal agencies and other law enforcement offices to combat what the government perceives as substantial fraud and abuse within the DMEPOS industry will likely continue in the coming years. Therefore, it is possible that suppliers of diabetic testing supplies could face closer scrutiny from CMS and Medicare contractors in the months ahead, including an increase in contractor audits of claims for diabetic testing supplies. We are also subject to state laws and regulations, including those governing pharmacy licensing and DME supplier licensing, which are extensive and costly. Although we believe we are in compliance with such state laws and regulations in all material respects, our failure to comply or failure to continue to comply with these state laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business. Any violation of the above-described federal and state laws may result in penalties that include loss or prohibition of payment for services, loss of licenses, fines, and other civil or criminal penalties, including exclusion from governmental programs. The cost of efforts to comply with HIPAA regulations and the possible consequence of non-compliance could adversely affect our operations and profit significantly. HIPAA is comprised of several components that apply to certain aspects of our business, portions of which would be considered a “covered entity.” If we do not continue to comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information we may face potential criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. The 2009 Stimulus Bill was enacted in February 2009, and contains significant modifications to HIPAA’s Privacy and Security Rules. These changes may require business associate agreements to be modified. The 2009 Stimulus Bill also increases the penalties for various HIPAA violations and dramatically expands other remedial actions (such as increasing federal government audits; granting attorneys fees in some HIPAA lawsuits; and allowing a method for individuals to recover penalties under HIPAA). The 2009 Stimulus Bill’s modifications could increase the potential cost of our efforts to comply with HIPAA as well as the cost of any possible non-compliance with HIPAA. Our accounts receivable are subject to significant collection risk due to third-party payors. Seeking reimbursement from third-party payors is subject to rigorous requirements and involves complicated paperwork. This may result in us suffering extremely long collection times, or not collecting at all, on a significant portion of our accounts receivable. If we are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors, where permitted, we may seek payment of the entire account receivable from our patient, who may not be financially capable of making the payment. Additionally, as a healthcare supplier, we are subject to claims audits by government regulators, contractors and private payers. We are subject to extensive government regulation, including laws regulating reimbursement under various government programs. Our documentation, billing and other practices are subject to scrutiny by regulators, including claims audits. To ensure compliance with U.S. reimbursement regulations, the Medicare regional contractors and other government contractors periodically conduct audits of billing practices and request medical records and other documents to support claims submitted by us for payment of services rendered to our customers. If any third-party payor conducts a post-payment audit, the audit determination may materially adversely affect us if we are required to refund significant sums of money. CMS and other federal agencies have focused on fraud and abuse in the DME industry for the past several years, including additional scrutiny on those DME suppliers located in South Florida, and additional efforts on the part of these federal agencies and other law enforcement offices to combat what the government perceives as substantial fraud and abuse within the DMEPOS industry will likely continue in the coming years. Therefore, it is possible that suppliers of diabetic testing supplies could face closer scrutiny from CMS and Medicare contractors in the months ahead, including an increase in contractor audits of claims for diabetic testing supplies. The cost of addressing such audits and reviews could be material to our business. 11 Table of Contents Our business could suffer from rising insurance costs, the unavailability of insurance or other events. The cost of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ insurance, workers’ compensation, product liability, business interruption and general liability insurance, continues to represent a significant expense to us. In response, within the purview of Medicare guidance, we may increase deductibles and/or decrease some coverages to mitigate these costs. These increases, and our increased risk due to increased deductibles and reduced coverages, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The sale of medical supply products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims against us which could be expensive to resolve regardless of the outcome. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, product liability insurance is expensive and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if it is available at all, particularly for certain classes of products. A claim brought against us, even if covered by our insurance policies, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As most of our operations are located in southern Florida, on an annual basis we are faced with the possibility of incurring damages or business disruption as a result of a hurricane. Business interruption insurance is expensive and may not be available in amounts that will fully protect us from such occurrences, whether caused by casualties such as hurricanes or fire, or other events, which may or may not be within our control. Risks Related to Owning Our Equity Securities Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Most of the original shares of our common stock issued in the merger of Millstream Acquisition Corporation and NationsHealth Holdings, LLC were issued as restricted securities within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and have not been registered for resale in the public market. However, these restricted securities, if such shares have not already become freely tradable, are now eligible for resale under Rule 144, subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, there were options and warrants outstanding to purchase 1,875,818 shares of common stock and notes outstanding which are convertible into 2,286,585 shares of common stock. Consequently, at various times in the future, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and affiliates control the rights to vote a majority of our common stock. These stockholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission rules promulgated thereunder require that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal control to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, our continued assessment, or the subsequent assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control, which may need to be disclosed in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Disclosures of this type could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business and operations. Compliance with changing regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and revised NASDAQ Stock Market rules, have required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses as well as a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our common stock may continue to have a volatile public trading price and low trading volume. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2003 through April 22, 2009, the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market or on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) has ranged between $8.33 and $0.02. We may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in the future for many reasons, some of which may be unrelated to our operating performance. 13 Table of Contents Many factors may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock, including: • Public announcements by us, our competitors or others • Regulatory developments concerning the availability of reimbursement pursuant to Medicare • Public concern about the safety or efficacy of pharmaceuticals • General market conditions and comments by securities analysts • Quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and financial results • Low trading volume associated with the number of shares that are publicly traded Trading on the OTC Bulletin Board may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares, may potentially lead to future market declines. Since May 1, 2008, our common stock has been quoted on the OTCBB. As a result, an investor could find it more difficult to dispose of or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our securities. Listing on the OTCBB may make trading our shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price and may cause difficulty in obtaining future financing. Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. We are subject to various legal and contractual provisions that may make a change in control of us more difficult. Our board of directors has the flexibility to adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If the board of directors exercises this power to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter also provides staggered terms for the members of our board of directors. This may prevent stockholders from replacing the entire board in a single proxy contest, making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors. Our equity incentive plans generally permit our board of directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of equity awards granted under these plans in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors used its authority to accelerate vesting of outstanding equity awards, then this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors could use this provision to prevent changes in management. The provisions described above, as well as other provisions in our charter and bylaws and under the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, even if the acquisition attempt was at a premium over the market value of our common stock at that time. 14 Table of Contents 