Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and are subject to the risks of a new enterprise. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to predict how our business will develop. We have incurred operating losses since we commenced operations in 2002. Furthermore, in 2005 we launched a new Medicare Part D business. Accordingly, we face the risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies, such as: • No history of profitability • Uncertain growth in the market for, and uncertain market acceptance of, our services • The evolving nature of the healthcare marketplace and the Medicare regulatory environment • The risks of competition, technological change or evolving patient preferences 7 Table of Contents We could experience significantly reduced revenues and earnings if Medicare changes, delays, reduces or denies reimbursement. We depend on the continued availability of reimbursement by government and private insurance plans for products sold to our patients and members. Revenue from Medicare represented approximately 64%, 77% and 65% of our total revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The federal regulatory authorities periodically review and adjust reimbursement amounts. Any reduction in Medicare reimbursement currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. The MMA reduced Medicare reimbursement rates for diabetic testing supplies, effective in 2005. The reduction in reimbursement rates has had a negative impact on our revenues and earnings. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our earnings unless there was a corresponding increase in Medicare reimbursement. Our revenues and earnings could also be adversely affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts or by changes in co-pay amounts. We have invested significant capital and dedicated substantial resources to launch our Medicare Part D services to CIGNA, which may not be successful. Our ability to profit from our investment in the Medicare Part D program depends upon many factors, including the ability of CIGNA to maintain its Medicare approved status; our ability to obtain any additional funding necessary to support the Part D business; accuracy of projections with respect to Part D enrollment and market opportunities; our ability to maintain our existing customer base and our customers’ desire to take advantage of Part D services; our dependence on key personnel; continued access to enrollment bases; uncertainty in our costs incurred in administering the Part D program; and changes in Medicare, Medicaid, Tricare, Champus and any other state or national-based reimbursement program. If CIGNA should fail to continue offering its CIGNATURE Rx Medicare Part D program for any reason or if CMS should fail to approve CIGNA’s Medicare Part D plans in future years, our ability to earn revenue under Medicare Part D would be significantly impaired. If we do not have sufficient capital to fund additional advertising, our ability to grow our business will be substantially diminished. Our growth in revenues in our medical supplies business to date has been attributable, in large part, to the acquisition of new patients that have been generated primarily by television advertising, which in turn is dependent on the availability of capital to fund such advertising. At this stage in our development, we believe our medical supplies revenues can continue to be increased through additional advertising. If we do not have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising, our ability to grow our business will be substantially diminished. We can provide no assurance that we will have access to sufficient capital to fund such advertising, or that if we sought to raise additional capital from third parties through debt or equity financings, that such capital would be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth and chances for achieving profitability may slow or stop. We have expanded our operations rapidly. This expansion has created significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources, particularly our need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets could strain these resources and increase our need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. 8 Table of Contents The profitability of our medical supplies business will decrease if we do not receive recurring orders from patients. Due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with the initial patient qualification, we generally incur losses and negative cash flow with respect to the first order for supplies from a patient. Accordingly, the profitability of our medical products supply business depends on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control. These include changing patient preferences, competitive price pressures, patient transition to extended care facilities, patient mortality and general economic conditions. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and net income from sales of diabetes products if improved technologies developed for glucose monitoring eliminate the need for consumable testing supplies. Approximately 56%, 45%, and 51% of our revenue for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, was from consumable diabetic testing supplies. Patients use these supplies to draw and test small quantities of blood for the purpose of measuring and monitoring glucose levels. Numerous research efforts are underway to develop more convenient and less intrusive glucose measurement techniques. The commercialization and widespread acceptance of new technologies that eliminate or reduce the need for consumable testing supplies could negatively affect sales in this market segment. Due to our size and limited operating history, we depend substantially on certain key personnel. Due to our size and limited operating history, our success depends to a large extent upon the continued service of executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse effect on us. While none of these key personnel is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any of these individuals may be disruptive to our business. We believe that our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled management personnel. Competition within the healthcare industry for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on terms acceptable to us. Certain executive officers have rights under employment agreements that could require us to make substantial payments to them. We have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Glenn M. Parker, M.D. and our President and Chief Information Officer, Lewis P. Stone, and, prior to December 16, 2005, with Robert Gregg who served as our Chief Operating Officer until October 5, 2005. These employment agreements provide that if we or the key person terminate employment in several specified events, that key person has the right to cause us to repurchase a number of shares of our common stock owned by the key person with a value of up to $3,000,000 based on then current market prices. Alternatively, we may elect to sell these shares of common stock to third parties or to register the resale of these shares. In the event a sale or registration results in proceeds less than the key person is to receive related to their right to sell, then we shall pay to the key person the difference between the requested dollar amount and the proceeds of the sale. The occurrence of either of these events could materially and adversely affect us as it may require us to make large cash payments to these individuals, thus reducing the amount of cash available to us. 9 Table of Contents On December 16, 2005, we entered into a separation agreement with Mr. Gregg terminating his employment as of that date. In addition to severance paid in December 2005 and other considerations, we are required to make future severance payments to Mr. Gregg totaling $750,000. Furthermore, the separation agreement also provides that Mr. Gregg is deemed to have exercised his right (the “Put Right”) under his employment agreement to request that we arrange for the purchase by a third party of up to $3,000,000 worth of NationsHealth common stock from Mr. Gregg. If we do not arrange such purchase prior to June 30, 2006, Mr. Gregg has the right to require us to purchase up to $3,000,000 worth of his NationsHealth common stock for cash, provided that we are not required to purchase more than $1,500,000 worth of such common stock in any calendar year. Under certain circumstances, we may pay such amounts over a period of up to three years. In lieu of a cash payment, we have the option to register such common stock for sale pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or to sell such common stock pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the Act. In no event shall Mr. Gregg receive less than $1,500,000 from such registered or exempt offering. We have agreed to purchase a large amount of medical supplies and we may not have the cash to satisfy these purchase obligations. In order to obtain a significant discount on medical supplies from one of our largest vendors, we have agreed to purchase minimum quantities of these medical supplies at certain intervals through December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2005 we were committed to purchase approximately $30.5 million of additional medical supplies under this agreement. There can be no assurance that we will generate enough patient orders to satisfy these minimum purchase obligations. If any of our information technology platforms malfunction, our business and profitability may be seriously harmed. Our business relies on proprietary information technology platforms that support the individual enrollment of new medical supplies patients and Medicare Part D enrollees, fulfillment services, prescription discount administration, document generation and collection, and patient and enrollee management. In addition, we use information technology platforms that provide us with electronic connectivity to a large number of pharmacies, shipping vendors and billing services. Due to the relatively high volume, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to transact business profitably. In addition, due to the highly regulated nature of the Medicare billing and payment process, the successful operation of our proprietary information technology platforms is necessary for us to be able to operate our business. A malfunction of the information technology systems will be disruptive to our business operations and, based on the duration of such malfunction, could result in reduced sales or profitability and the possible loss of patients. We may have difficulties in achieving volume-based discounts or finding replacement supplies if we lose any agreement with our suppliers of medical products. We receive volume-based discounts under our agreements with suppliers of medical products. These discounts favorably impact our gross margins. Any failure to achieve or sustain volume-based discounts under these supply agreements would negatively affect our profitability. In addition, many of the supply agreements that we have with our suppliers are terminable without cause upon the giving of a specified number of days’ advance written notice. In the event that one or more of these suppliers elects to terminate their supply agreements, we may have difficulties in finding replacement suppliers, which may prevent us from purchasing a sufficient amount of supplies to satisfy the demands of our patients. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry If we do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from selling our products and could experience significantly reduced revenues and net income. The majority of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of sales of products or a recall, we may lose sales and incur expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. As a Medicare supplier, we are subject to extensive regulation including, but not limited to, the Medicare durable medical equipment, or DME, supplier standards and the federal health care program anti-fraud and abuse laws. While we believe that our current and contemplated future operations materially comply with applicable regulatory requirements, there are a number of common practices in the industry where the law is unsettled and there have not been decided cases or definitive statements by the regulatory authorities concerning such practices. Specifically, we, like many providers of diabetes supplies, obtain glucose monitors from manufacturers without charge and, in turn, provide them to Medicare beneficiaries without charge. These practices potentially implicate the federal health care program anti-kickback law and the law prohibiting payment of inducements to Medicare beneficiaries. Another practice, our telephone calls to beneficiaries based on such beneficiaries’ initial telephone calls to an outsourced third-party call center, could implicate the Medicare anti-telemarketing law. Additionally, our retail initiative is a new initiative that could potentially raise questions about our role and the role of the retail pharmacy under the Medicare DME supplier standards. In each case, we have evaluated the practices at issue and believe that they are in compliance with applicable requirements. However, there can be no assurance that such practices could not be challenged. Any such challenge, regardless of whether successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any negligence or mistake we make in processing Medicare reimbursement claims could lead to recoupment of past payments and/or our suspension from the Medicare program. We are also subject to state laws and regulations, including those governing pharmacy licensing and DME supplier licensing, which are costly and burdensome. Although we believe we are in material compliance with such state laws and regulations, our failure to comply or failure to continue to comply with these state laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business. Violation of the above-described federal and state laws may result in penalties that include loss or prohibition of payment for services, loss of licenses, fines, and other civil or criminal penalties, including exclusion from governmental programs. The cost of efforts to comply with HIPAA regulations and the possible consequence of non-compliance could adversely affect our operations and net income significantly. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, is comprised of several components that apply to certain aspects of our business, portions of which would be considered a “covered entity.” If we do not continue to comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information we may face potential criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle health care related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. 11 Table of Contents Our accounts receivable are subject to significant collection risk due to third-party payors. Seeking reimbursement from third-party payors is subject to rigorous requirements and involves complicated paperwork. This may result in us suffering extremely long collection times, or not collecting at all, on a significant portion of our accounts receivable. If we are unable to obtain reimbursement from third-party payors, where permitted, we may seek payment of the entire account receivable from our patient, who may not be financially capable of making the payment. We could be liable for harm caused by products that we sell. The sale of medical supply products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims against us. A product liability claim could be expensive to resolve, even if the claim is resolved in our favor. While we believe that our insurance provides adequate coverage, no assurance can be made that adequate coverage will exist for these claims. Newly adopted accounting regulations require us to expense stock options, which could cause our stock price to decline. The Financial Accounting Standards Board recently adopted the previously proposed regulations that will eliminate the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using the intrinsic method that we used through 2005. These new regulations require that such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method and recognized as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations. The effective date for this change for us was as of January 1, 2006. Previously, we only disclosed such expenses on a pro forma basis in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, in any reporting period in which we are required to recognize an expense for share-based compensation, our earnings will be lower than if no expense had been taken. Our stock price could decline in response to any perceived decline in our reported earnings. Risks Related to Owning Our Equity Securities Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. There were 21,375,000 shares of our common stock issued in the Millstream merger, of which 1,802,977 were registered for sale in the public market. All of the remaining 19,572,023 shares are restricted securities within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, but are eligible for resale under Rule 144 subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144, subject to certain lock-up restrictions contained in the registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the Millstream merger. On August 18, 2005, 273,897 shares of our common stock were issued to US Bioservices Corporation for $1,500,000 to fulfill our capital contribution obligation related to the formation of Specialty Rx. Additionally, in conjunction with our agreement with CIGNA, on November 4, 2005 we issued to CIGNA, 303,030 shares of our common stock for $6.60 per share, or approximately $2,000,000, and warrants to purchase an additional 2,936,450 shares of our common stock at $6.60 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2005 there were warrants, including CIGNA’s warrants, and options, including the underwriter’s option, outstanding to purchase 14,942,839 shares of common stock and notes outstanding which are convertible into 2,286,585 shares of common stock. Moreover, 750,000 shares of Millstream common stock purchased by its stockholders prior to the initial public offering will be held in escrow until August 25, 2006, at which time they will be released from escrow and become eligible for resale in the public market subject to compliance with applicable law. Consequently, at various times in the future, a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock will be eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of such shares and of the warrants. 12 Table of Contents Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our executive officers, directors and affiliates control the rights to vote a majority of our common stock. These stockholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace rules. As such, we are exempt from NASDAQ’s requirements that would otherwise require our board of directors to have a majority of independent directors, our board nominations to be selected, or recommended for the board’s selection either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of our independent directors and our compensation committee to be comprised entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not receive the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all NASDAQ requirements. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Securities and Exchange Commission rules promulgated thereunder require that we report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our annual report for 2006 or 2007, depending on our non-affiliate market capitalization on June 30, 2006. Among other things, we must perform systems and processes evaluation and testing. We must also conduct an assessment of our internal control to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In the future, our continued assessment, or the subsequent assessment by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control, which may need to be disclosed in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Disclosures of this type could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively affect the price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business and operations. Compliance with changing regulation relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Keeping abreast of, and in compliance with, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and revised NASDAQ Stock Market rules, have required an increased amount of management attention and external resources. We intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our common stock may continue to have a volatile public trading price and low trading volume. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2003 through March 22, 2006, the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market has ranged between $8.33 and $3.71. We may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in the future for many reasons, some of which may be unrelated to our operating performance. 13 Table of Contents Many factors may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock, including: • Public announcements by us, our competitors or others • Regulatory developments concerning the availability of reimbursement pursuant to Medicare • Public concern about the safety or efficacy of pharmaceuticals • General market conditions and comments by securities analysts • Quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and financial results Anti-takeover provisions in our governing documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. We are subject to various legal and contractual provisions that may make a change in control of us more difficult. Our board of directors has the flexibility to adopt additional anti-takeover measures. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If the board of directors exercises this power to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter also provides staggered terms for the members of our board of directors. This may prevent stockholders from replacing the entire board in a single proxy contest, making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the consent of our board of directors. Our equity incentive plans generally permit our board of directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of options granted under these plans in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors used its authority to accelerate vesting of options, then this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors could use this provision to prevent changes in management. The provisions described above, as well as other provisions in our charter and bylaws and under the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our company, even if the acquisition attempt was at a premium over the market value of our common stock at that time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 