Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks and other factors relating to our structure and investment objectives. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives. You should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our securities. Risk related to the economy The current state of the economy and the capital markets increases the possibility of adverse effects on our financial position, results of operations and common stock price. Continued adversity in the capital markets could impact our ability to raise capital and limit our ability to make new investments. The United States remains in a recession, and, as a result, conditions within the global credit markets and the U.S. real estate credit markets in particular continue to experience dislocation and stress. While we are seeing signs of economic improvement and stabilization in the equity markets, the debt markets are still challenging, and we do not know if adverse conditions will again intensify, nor are we able to gauge the full extent to which the disruptions will affect us. The stress to the global credit markets has resulted in an extreme tightening of liquidity and while the United States government has implemented plans designed to ease the credit markets, the credit markets remain very constricted for commercial real estate. Continued weak economic and credit conditions could adversely impact the financial condition of one or more of our tenants or our borrower and, therefore, could make a tenant or borrower bankruptcy, and payment default on the related lease or loan, more likely. As of December 31, 2009, all of our tenants and borrower were paying as agreed, however, there is no guarantee this will continue. The recession generally, and the disruptions in the capital markets in particular, have decreased liquidity and increased our cost of equity capital which has impacted our ability to raise capital and in turn greatly reduced our ability to make new investments as we did not acquire any properties during 2009. The longer these conditions persist, the greater the probability that these factors will have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, ability to pay distributions to stockholders and the price of our common stock. Risks related to our financing Our line of credit contains various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate our repayment obligations, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to stockholders. The agreement governing our line of credit requires us to comply with certain financial and operational covenants. These covenants require us to, among other things, maintain certain financial ratios, including fixed charge coverage, debt service coverage and a minimum net worth. We are also required to limit our distributions to stockholders to 95% of our FFO, and continued compliance with this covenant may require us to limit our distributions to stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with these covenants. However, our continued compliance with these covenants depends on many factors, and could be impacted by current economic conditions, and thus there are no assurances that we will continue to comply with these covenants. In addition, our lender has the option to obtain updated appraisals for the properties pledged to the line of credit as borrowing base collateral if the lender believes there has been a material adverse change to the value of any of the pledged properties. If the aggregate value of the updated appraisals is lower than the current aggregate value of appraisals, it would lower the amount of our borrowing base and reduce the amount we could borrow under the line of credit with that borrowing base. If the line is fully drawn, and the value of the borrowing base is reduced because of a lower aggregate updated appraisal value, we would be required to repay a portion of the outstanding line. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default which, if we were unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders, could accelerate our repayment obligations under the line of credit and thereby have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to stockholders. 18 Our ability to obtain replacement financing on our line of credit on terms favorable to us, or at all, could adversely impact our liquidity and ability to fund new investments. Our revolving line of credit matures in December 2010. Our ability to obtain replacement financing at the time of maturity could be constrained by current economic conditions affecting the credit markets generally. In the event that we are not able to obtain replacement financing for our credit facility on favorable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and our ability to fund new investments. Our business strategy relies heavily on external financing, which may expose us to risks associated with leverage such as restrictions on additional borrowing and payment of distributions to stockholders, risks associated with balloon payments, and risk of loss of our equity upon foreclosure. Our current business strategy involves the use of leverage so that we may make more investments than would otherwise be possible in order to maximize potential returns to stockholders. If the income generated by our properties and other assets fails to cover our debt service, we could be forced to reduce or eliminate distributions to our stockholders and may experience losses. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives will be affected by our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms. We expect that we will borrow money that will be secured by our properties and that these financing arrangements will contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain the degree of leverage we believe to be optimal, which may cause us to have less cash for distribution to stockholders than we would have with an optimal amount of leverage. Our use of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy, as it may become difficult to meet our debt service obligations if our cash flows are reduced due to tenant defaults. There is also a risk that a significant increase in the ratio of our indebtedness to the measures of asset value used by financial analysts may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Some of our debt financing arrangements may require us to make lump-sum or “balloon” payments at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or to sell the financed property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment, which could adversely affect the amount of distributions to our stockholders. We intend to acquire additional properties by using our line of credit and by continuing to seek long-term financing, where we will borrow all or a portion of the purchase price of a potential acquisition and securing the loan with a mortgage on some or all of our existing real property. However, the market for long-term mortgages remains frozen in the current economic environment as the collateralized mortgage-backed securities, or CMBS, market has virtually disappeared. We are now only seeing banks willing to issue medium-term mortgages, between two and five years, on substantially less favorable terms than were previously available. Consequently, we intend to focus on using medium-term mortgages to finance our real estate until the market for long-term mortgages returns. To date we have obtained approximately $253 million in long-term financing, which we have used to acquire additional properties. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property securing its loan. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in such property which in turn could cause the value of our securities or the amount of distributions to our stockholders to be reduced. Interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience interest rate volatility in connection with mortgage loans on our properties or other variable-rate debt that we may obtain from time to time. We currently have one variable rate mortgage loan, certain of our leases contain escalations based on market interest rates, and the interest rate on our existing line of credit is variable. Although we seek to mitigate this risk by structuring such provisions to 19 contain a minimum interest rate or escalation rate, as applicable, these features do not eliminate this risk. We are also exposed to the effects of interest rate changes as a result of the holding of our cash and cash equivalents in short-term, interest-bearing investments. We have not entered into any derivative contracts to attempt to further manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. A significant change in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Risks related to the real estate industry We are subject to certain risks associated with real estate ownership and lending which could reduce the value of our investments. Our investments include net leased industrial and commercial property and mortgage loans secured by industrial and commercial real estate. Our performance, and the value of our investments, is subject to risks incident to the ownership and operation of these types of properties, including: • changes in the general economic climate; • changes in local conditions such as an oversupply of space or reduction in demand for real estate; • changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; • competition from other available space; and • changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing real estate usage, zoning and taxes. The debt obligations of our tenants and borrowers are dependent upon certain factors which neither we nor our tenants or borrowers control, such as national, local and regional business and economic conditions, government economic policies, and the level of interest rates. As discussed in “Risk related to the economy” above, the credit markets have tightened resulting in a significant contraction in available liquidity. Accordingly, the credit market constraints and recession may increase the operating expenses of our tenants and borrowers and decrease their ability to make lease or mortgage payments, and thereby adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede our ability to make acquisitions or increase the cost of these acquisitions. We compete for the acquisition of properties with many other entities engaged in real estate investment activities, including financial institutions, institutional pension funds, other REITs, other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors. These competitors may prevent us from acquiring desirable properties or may cause an increase in the price we must pay for real estate. Our competitors may have greater resources than we do, and may be willing to pay more for certain assets or may have a more compatible operating philosophy with our acquisition targets. In particular, larger REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Our competitors may also adopt transaction structures similar to ours, which would decrease our competitive advantage in offering flexible transaction terms. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties. Our ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to risks which are different than those resulting from our ownership of fee title to other properties. We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the land underlying the property, and we may acquire additional properties in the future that are subject to similar ground leases. In this situation, we have no economic interest in the land underlying the property and do not control this land. Because we do not control the underlying land, this type of ownership interest poses potential risks for our business because (i) if the ground lease terminates for any reason, we will lose our interest in the property, including any investment that we made in the property, (ii) if our tenant defaults 20 under the previously existing lease, we will continue to be obligated to meet the terms and conditions of the ground lease without the annual amount of ground lease payments reimbursable to us by the tenant, and (iii) if the third party owning the land under the ground lease disrupts our use either permanently or for a significant period of time, then the value of our assets could be impaired and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks related to our tenants, borrowers and properties Highly leveraged tenants and borrowers may be unable to pay rent or make mortgage payments, which could adversely affect our cash available to make distributions to our stockholders. Some of our tenants and borrowers may have recently been either restructured using leverage, or acquired in a leveraged transaction. Tenants and borrowers that are subject to significant debt obligations may be unable to make their rent or mortgage payments if there are adverse changes to their businesses or because of the impact of the recession discussed in “Risk related to the economy.” Tenants that have experienced leveraged restructurings or acquisitions will generally have substantially greater debt and substantially lower net worth than they had prior to the leveraged transaction. In addition, the payment of rent and debt service may reduce the working capital available to leveraged entities and prevent them from devoting the resources necessary to remain competitive in their industries. In situations where management of the tenant or borrower will change after a transaction, it may be difficult for our Adviser to determine with certainty the likelihood of the tenant’s or borrower’s business success and of its ability to pay rent or make mortgage payments throughout the lease or loan term. These companies generally are more vulnerable to adverse economic and business conditions, and increases in interest rates. Leveraged tenants and borrowers are more susceptible to bankruptcy than unleveraged tenants. Bankruptcy of a tenant or borrower could cause: • the loss of lease or mortgage payments to us; • an increase in the costs we incur to carry the property occupied by such tenant; • a reduction in the value of our securities; or • a decrease in distributions to our stockholders. Under bankruptcy law, a tenant who is the subject of bankruptcy proceedings has the option of continuing or terminating any unexpired lease. If a bankrupt tenant terminates a lease with us, any claim we might have for breach of the lease (excluding a claim against collateral securing the claim) will be treated as a general unsecured claim. Our claim would likely be capped at the amount the tenant owed us for unpaid rent prior to the bankruptcy unrelated to the termination, plus the greater of one year’s lease payments or 15% of the remaining lease payments payable under the lease (but no more than three years’ lease payments). In addition, due to the long-term nature of our leases and terms providing for the repurchase of a property by the tenant, a bankruptcy court could re-characterize a net lease transaction as a secured lending transaction. If that were to occur, we would not be treated as the owner of the property, but might have additional rights as a secured creditor. Net leases may not result in fair market lease rates over time. We expect a large portion of our rental income to come from net leases and net leases frequently provide the tenant greater discretion in using the leased property than ordinary property leases, such as the right to sublease the property, subject to our approval, to make alterations in the leased premises and to terminate the lease prior to its expiration under specified circumstances. Further, net leases are typically for longer lease terms and, thus, there is an increased risk that contractual rental increases in future years will fail to result in fair market rental rates during those years. As a result, our income and distributions to our stockholders could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not engage in net leases. 21 Many of our tenants are small and medium size businesses, which exposes us to additional risks unique to these entities. Leasing real property or making mortgage loans to small and medium-sized businesses exposes us to a number of unique risks related to these entities, including the following: • Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited financial resources and may not be able to make their lease or mortgage payments on a timely basis, or at all. A small or medium-sized tenant or borrower is more likely to have difficulty making its lease or mortgage payments when it experiences adverse events, such as the failure to meet its business plan, a downturn in its industry or negative economic conditions. In addition, because of the lack of available credit in the current marketplace, as discussed further in “Risk related to the economy” above, our tenants might not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund their working capital, which could hinder their ability to make their lease or mortgage payment on a timely basis, or at all. • Small and medium-sized businesses typically have narrower product lines and smaller market shares than large businesses. Because our target tenants and borrowers are smaller businesses, they will tend to be more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns. In addition, our target tenants and borrowers may face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater financial resources, more extensive development, manufacturing, marketing and other capabilities and a larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. • There is generally little or no publicly available information about our target tenants and borrowers. Many of our tenants and borrowers are likely to be privately owned businesses, about which there is generally little or no publicly available operating and financial information. As a result, we will rely on our Adviser to perform due diligence investigations of these tenants and borrowers, their operations and their prospects. We may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses through our investigations. • Small and medium-sized businesses generally have less predictable operating results. We expect that many of our tenants and borrowers may experience significant fluctuations in their operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, to finance expansion or to maintain their competitive positions, may otherwise have a weak financial position or may be adversely affected by changes in the business cycle. Our tenants and borrowers may not meet net income, cash flow and other coverage tests typically imposed by their senior lenders. The failure of a tenant or borrower to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by senior lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, foreclosure on credit facilities, which could additionally trigger cross-defaults in other agreements. If this were to occur, it is possible that the ability of the tenant or borrower to make required payments to us would be jeopardized. • Small and medium-sized businesses are more likely to be dependent on one or two persons. Typically, the success of a small or medium-sized business also depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our tenant or borrower and, in turn, on us. • Small and medium-sized businesses may have limited operating histories. While we intend to target as tenants and borrowers stable companies with proven track records, we may lease properties or lend money to new companies that meet our other investment criteria. Tenants or borrowers with limited operating histories will be exposed to all of the operating risks that new businesses face and may be particularly susceptible to, among other risks, market downturns, competitive pressures and the departure of key executive officers. 22 We may not have funding for future tenant improvements. When a tenant at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings, it is likely that, in order to attract one or more new tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient sources of funding available to us for such purposes in the future. Our real estate investments may include special use and single or multi-tenant properties that may be difficult to sell or re-lease upon tenant defaults or early lease terminations. We focus our investments on commercial and industrial properties, a number of which include manufacturing facilities, special use storage or warehouse facilities and special use single or multi-tenant properties. These types of properties are relatively illiquid compared to other types of real estate and financial assets. This illiquidity will limit our ability to quickly change our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. With these properties, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed or, in the case of a mortgage loan, if we take such property in foreclosure, we may be required to renovate the property or to make rent concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant or sell the property. In addition, in the event we are forced to sell the property, we may have difficulty selling it to a party other than the tenant or borrower due to the special purpose for which the property may have been designed. These and other limitations may affect our ability to sell or re-lease properties without adversely affecting returns to our stockholders. Our real estate investments have a limited number of tenants and are concentrated in a limited number of industries, which subjects us to an increased risk of significant loss if any one of these tenants is unable to pay or if particular industries experience downturns. As of December 31, 2009, we owned 64 properties and had 50 tenants in these properties, and our 5 largest tenants accounted for approximately 24.0% of our total rental income. A consequence of a limited number of tenants is that the aggregate returns we realize may be substantially adversely affected by the unfavorable performance of a small number of tenants. We do not have fixed guidelines for industry concentration and our investments could potentially be concentrated in relatively few industries. As of December 31, 2009, 14.9% of our total rental income was earned from tenants in the electronic industry, 14.8% of our total rental income was earned from tenants in the healthcare, education and childcare industry and 13.1% of our total rental income was earned from tenants in the telecommunications industry. As a result, a downturn in an industry in which we have invested a significant portion of our total assets could have a material adverse effect on us. The inability of a tenant in a single tenant property to pay rent will reduce our revenues and increase our carrying costs of the building. Since most of our properties are occupied by a single tenant, the success of our investments will be materially dependent on the financial stability of these tenants. If a tenant defaults, our rental revenues would be reduced and our expenses associated with carrying the property would increase, as we will be responsible for payments such as taxes and insurance. Lease payment defaults by these tenants could adversely affect our cash flows and cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to stockholders. In the event of a default by a tenant, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property. If a lease is terminated, there is no assurance that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. Liability for uninsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition. Losses from disaster-type occurrences (such as wars or earthquakes) may be either uninsurable or not insurable on economically viable terms. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose our capital investment or anticipated profits and cash flow from one or more properties. 23 Potential liability for environmental matters could adversely affect our financial condition. Our purchase of industrial and commercial properties subjects us to the risk of liabilities under federal, state and local environmental laws. Some of these laws could subject us to: • responsibility and liability for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances released on our properties, generally without regard to our knowledge of or responsibility for the presence of the contaminants; • liability for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at disposal facilities for persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of these substances; and • potential liability for common law claims by third parties for damages resulting from environmental contaminants. We generally include provisions in our leases making tenants responsible for all environmental liabilities and for compliance with environmental regulations, and requiring tenants to reimburse us for damages or costs for which we have been found liable. However, these provisions will not eliminate our statutory liability or preclude third party claims against us. Even if we were to have a legal claim against a tenant to enable us to recover any amounts we are required to pay, there are no assurances that we would be able to collect any money from the tenant. Our costs of investigation, remediation or removal of hazardous substances may be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances on one of our properties, or the failure to properly remediate a contaminated property, could adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. We obtain environmental site assessments, or ESAs, on all of our properties at the time of acquisition. The ESAs are intended to identify potential environmental contamination. The ESAs include a historical review of the property, a review of certain public records, a preliminary investigation of the site and surrounding properties, screening for the presence of hazardous substances and underground storage tanks, and the preparation and issuance of a written report. The ESAs that we have obtained have not revealed any environmental liability or compliance concerns that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, results of operations or liquidity, nor are we aware of any such liability. Nevertheless, it is possible that these ESAs do not reveal all environmental liabilities or that there are material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns that we are not aware of. Moreover, we cannot assure you that (i) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose material environmental liability, or (ii) the current environmental condition of a property will not be affected by the condition of properties in the vicinity of the property (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us. If a sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized in a tenant’s bankruptcy proceeding, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We may enter into sale-leaseback transactions, whereby we would purchase a property and then lease the same property back to the person from whom we purchased it. In the event of the bankruptcy of a tenant, a transaction structured as a sale-leaseback may be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our business. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result would have the status of a creditor in relation to the tenant. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the tenant for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The tenant/debtor might have the ability to propose a plan restructuring the term, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a joint venture, we could be treated as a co-venturer with our lessee with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the lessee relating to the property. Either of these outcomes could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. 24 Risks related to our Adviser We are dependent upon our key management personnel, who are employed by our Adviser, for our future success, particularly David Gladstone, Terry Lee Brubaker and George Stelljes III. We are dependent on our senior management and other key management members to carry out our business and investment strategies. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our senior management team, particularly David Gladstone, our chairman and chief executive officer, Terry Lee Brubaker, our vice chairman and chief operating officer, and George Stelljes III, our president and chief investment officer, all of whom are subject to an employment agreement with our Adviser. The departure of any of our executive officers or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and to achieve our investment objectives. Our success depends on the performance of our Adviser and if our Adviser makes inadvisable investment or management decisions, our operations could be materially adversely impacted. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay distributions to our stockholders is dependent upon the performance of our Adviser in evaluating potential investments, selecting and negotiating property purchases and dispositions and mortgage loans, selecting tenants and borrowers, setting lease or mortgage loan terms and determining financing arrangements. Accomplishing these objectives on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our Adviser’s marketing capabilities, management of the investment process, ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms. Our stockholders have no opportunity to evaluate the terms of transactions or other economic or financial data concerning our investments and must rely entirely on the analytical and management abilities of our Adviser and the oversight of our board of directors. If our Adviser or our board of directors makes inadvisable investment or management decisions, our operations could be materially adversely impacted. As we grow, our Adviser may be required to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Our Adviser’s failure to effectively manage our future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have conflicts of interest with our Adviser and other affiliates. Our Adviser manages our business and locates, evaluates, recommends and negotiates the acquisition of our real estate investments. At the same time, our advisory agreement permits our Adviser to conduct other commercial activities and provide management and advisory services to other entities, including Gladstone Capital Corporation, Gladstone Investment Corporation and Gladstone Land Corporation, an entity affiliated with our chairman David Gladstone. Moreover, with the exception of our chief financial officer, all of our officers and directors are also officers and directors of Gladstone Capital Corporation and Gladstone Investment Corporation, which actively make loans to and invest in small and medium-sized companies. As a result, we may from time to time have conflicts of interest with our Adviser in its management of our business and with Gladstone Capital and Gladstone Investment, which may arise primarily from the involvement of our Adviser, Gladstone Capital, Gladstone Investment, Gladstone Land and their affiliates in other activities that may conflict with our business. Examples of these potential conflicts include: • our Adviser may realize substantial compensation on account of its activities on our behalf, and may, therefore, be motivated to approve acquisitions solely on the basis of increasing compensation to itself; • we may experience competition with our affiliates for financing transactions; • our Adviser may earn fee income from our borrowers or tenants; and • our Adviser and other affiliates such as Gladstone Capital, Gladstone Investment and Gladstone Land could compete for the time and services of our officers and directors. 25 These and other conflicts of interest between us and our Adviser and other affiliates could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business and the selection or management of our real estate investments. Our Adviser is not obligated to provide a waiver of the incentive fee, which could negatively impact our earnings and our ability to maintain our current level of, or increase, distributions to our stockholders. The Advisory Agreement contemplates a quarterly incentive fee based on our funds from operations. Our Adviser has the ability to issue a full or partial waiver of the incentive fee for current and future periods, however, our Adviser is not required to issue any waiver. Any waiver issued by our Adviser is an unconditional and irrevocable waiver. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, an unconditional and irrevocable voluntary waiver was issued by our Adviser for approximately $0.7 million, $2.2 million and $2.3 million, respectively. If our Adviser does not issue this waiver in future quarters, it could negatively impact our earnings and may compromise our ability to maintain our current level of, or increase, distributions to our stockholders, which could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. We may be obligated to pay our Adviser incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. The Advisory Agreement entitles our Adviser to incentive compensation based on our FFO, which rewards the Adviser if our quarterly FFO (before giving effect to any incentive fee) exceeds 1.75% (7% annualized) of our total stockholders’ equity (less the recorded value of any preferred stock). Our pre-incentive fee FFO for incentive compensation purposes excludes the effect of any unrealized gains, losses or other items that do not affect realized net income that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay our Adviser incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if we incur a net loss for that quarter. Risks of being a REIT We may not qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, thereby reducing the amount of funds available for paying distributions to our stockholders. We have historically operated and intend to continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to meet various requirements set forth in the Internal Revenue Code concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our stockholders. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is also possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our board of directors to revoke our REIT election, which it may do without stockholder approval. If we lose or revoke our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to you because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax; • we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we would be prevented from re-qualifying to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify. 26 In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would be subject to tax to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. If we were taxed as a regular corporation, corporate distributees might be eligible for the dividends received deduction, but we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. We have not sought a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that we qualify as a REIT, nor do we intend to do so in the future. An IRS determination that we do not qualify as a REIT would deprive our stockholders of the tax benefits of our REIT status only if the IRS determination is upheld in court or otherwise becomes final. To the extent that we challenge an IRS determination that we do not qualify as a REIT, we may incur legal expenses that would reduce our funds available for distribution to our stockholders. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Failure to make required distributions or to satisfy certain income requirements would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, other than any net capital gains. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: • 85% of our ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. In addition, each year at least 95% of our gross income must be derived from passive sources in real estate and securities, and at least 75% of our gross income must be derived from real estate sources. If we fail to satisfy either of these gross income tests, but nonetheless continue to qualify as a REIT because we meet certain other requirements, we will incur a tax of up to 100% on the greater of the excess of 95% of our gross income over the amount of our qualifying income, or the excess of 75% of our gross income over the amount of our qualifying income. We intend to pay out our income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the distribution requirement applicable to REITs and the foregoing gross income tests and, thus, avoid corporate income taxes and the 4% excise tax. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. In the future, we may borrow funds to pay distributions to our stockholders and the limited partners of our Operating Partnership. Any funds that we borrow would subject us to interest rate and other market risks. Because we must distribute a substantial portion of our net income to qualify as a REIT, we largely depend on third-party sources of capital to fund our future capital needs. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year, excluding capital gains. Because of this distribution requirement, it is not likely that we will be 27 able to fund a significant portion of our future capital needs, including property acquisitions, from retained earnings. Therefore, we mostly rely on public and private debt and equity capital to fund our business. This capital may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to additional capital is also dependent on the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. Moreover, additional debt financings may substantially increase our leverage. As discussed in “Risk related to the economy” above, the current recession has severely decreased liquidity and increased our cost of debt and equity capital, thus limiting our ability to raise additional capital and to fund new property acquisitions. Other risks Recent accounting pronouncements may impact our results of operations. Beginning January 1, 2009, Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 805, “Business Combinations,” significantly changed the accounting for acquisitions involving business combinations, including our acquisition of properties with existing leases in place, as it requires that the assets and liabilities of all business combinations be recorded at fair value, with limited exceptions. ASC 805 requires that all expenses related to an acquisition be expensed as incurred, rather than capitalized into the cost of the acquisition as had been the previous accounting. ASC 805 was effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period subsequent to December 15, 2008. We anticipate that approximately 1% of the total acquisition price will be expensed as part of the acquisition, however this amount could differ significantly. Because we did not acquire any properties during 2009, this pronouncement did not have a significant impact on our operations during 2009. We expect, however, that the expensing of acquisition costs will lower our earnings during 2010 and any future years in which we acquire new properties. We are subject to restrictions that may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and Maryland law may prohibit or restrict a change of control. • Our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership of more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock by one person. This restriction may discourage a change of control and may deter individuals or entities from making tender offers for our capital stock, which offers might otherwise be financially attractive to our stockholders or which might cause a change in our management. • Our board of directors is divided into three classes, with the term of the directors in each class expiring every third year. At each annual meeting of stockholders, the successors to the class of directors whose term expires at such meeting will be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the annual meeting of stockholders held in the third year following the year of their election. After election, a director may only be removed by our stockholders for cause. Election of directors for staggered terms with limited rights to remove directors makes it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us. The existence of this provision may negatively impact the price of our securities and may discourage third-party bids to acquire our securities. This provision may reduce any premiums paid to stockholders in a change in control transaction. • Certain provisions of Maryland law applicable to us prohibit business combinations with: • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our common stock, referred to as an “interested stockholder;” • an affiliate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was an interested stockholder; or • an affiliate of an interested stockholder. 28 These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder. Thereafter, any business combination with the interested stockholder must be recommended by our board of directors and approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our outstanding shares of common stock and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of our common stock other than shares held by the interested stockholder. These requirements could have the effect of inhibiting a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders’ interest. These provisions of Maryland law do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by our board of directors prior to the time that someone becomes an interested stockholder. Market conditions could adversely affect the market price and trading volume of our securities. The market price of our common and preferred stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, and the trading volume in our common and preferred stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Due to market volatility, our common stock significantly fluctuated during 2009. We cannot assure investors that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline further in the future. Some market conditions that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our securities include: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of shares of REITs, real estate companies or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the performance of those companies; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market as a result of terrorist attacks, or speculation regarding future terrorist attacks, in the United States or abroad; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or distributions to stockholders; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or the publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry generally; • actions by institutional stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to REITs; and • investor confidence in the stock market. Shares of common stock eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our share price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares of common stock issuable upon the conversion of units of our operating partnership that we may issue from time to time or issuable upon conversion of our senior common stock), or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of the federal and state income tax laws applicable to investments in REIT shares. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of our stockholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. 29 Our Board of Directors may change our investment policy without stockholders’ approval. Subject to our co-investment policy, our Board of Directors will determine its investment and financing policies, growth strategy and its debt, capitalization, distribution, acquisition, disposition and operating policies. Our Board of Directors may revise or amend these strategies and policies at any time without a vote by stockholders. Accordingly, stockholders’ control over changes in our strategies and policies is limited to the election of directors, and changes made by our Board of Directors may not serve the interests of stockholders and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, including our ability to distribute cash to stockholders or qualify as a REIT. If our Operating Partnership fails to maintain its status as a partnership or other form of pass-through entity for federal income tax purposes, its income may be subject to taxation. As we hold all of the ownership interests in our Operating Partnership, it is currently disregarded for income tax purposes. We intend that it will qualify as a partnership for income tax purposes upon the admission of additional partners; however, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of our Operating Partnership as a partnership, it would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, this would reduce the amount of distributions that our Operating Partnership could make to us. This could also result in our losing REIT status and becoming subject to a corporate level tax on our own income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and the return on your investment. In addition, if any of the entities through which our Operating Partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to our Operating Partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain REIT status. Our potential participation in joint ventures creates additional risk. We may participate in joint ventures or purchase properties jointly with other unaffiliated entities. There are additional risks involved in these types of transactions. These risks include the potential of our joint venture partner becoming bankrupt or our economic or business interests diverging. These diverging interests could, among other things, expose us to liabilities of the joint venture in excess of our proportionate share of these liabilities. The partition rights of each owner in a jointly owned property could reduce the value of each portion of the divided property. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 