ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements and information and is subject to the “safe harbor” provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements, which involve The Bank Holdings’ (the “Company’s”) plans, beliefs and goals, refer to estimates or use similar terms, involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. In addition, our business exposes us to certain risks. The factors contained below, among others, could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to the Company’s Business Stroke of the Pen Risk. Financial risk management tends to be based on credit, market, operational, regulatory and reputational risk. Additionally, however, there are changes in policy, regulation and accounting that address issues outside the financial services industry that result in systemic risks to banking organizations. Such changes recently arose in the political process which made them difficult to anticipate and which carried profound and negative consequences for our Company and Bank. Such consequences, we believe, were not adequately evaluated primarily in terms of their effects on the insured financial institutions usually referred to as “community banks”. 27 Table of Contents Recent changes in monetary policy, tax policy, and accounting standards have posed such a risk, however, the early September “conservatorship” of FNMA (Fannie Mae) and FHLMC (Freddie Mac) brought about “unintended consequences” that severely depleted the capital of the Company. Although the September 7, 2008 joint release by the FRB, FDIC, OCC and OTS opined that “a limited number of small institutions have holdings that are significant compared to their capital”, and that these agencies “are prepared to work with these institutions to develop capital restoration plans”, there has been a noticeable lack of regulatory support. Such risk as has been imposed by this U.S. Treasury Department action has magnified any previous risks borne by the Bank and Company primarily due to credit or market risks. It has depleted capital, reduced the financial strength and flexibility of the Company, and poses grave concerns to our shareholders and customers. Although the Bank and the Company remain “well capitalized” under current regulatory standards, no absolute assurance can be given that this, in fact, will continue. The Company’s Business May Be More Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007 and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of sub-prime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $200 billion in the equity of other banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The Company’s financial performance generally and in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, continued business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or reduced levels of investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. 28 Table of Contents Overall during 2008, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in northern Nevada, northern California, the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the difficult business environment in northern Nevada, northern California, the United States and worldwide may continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Company Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Is Subject To Continuing Lending Risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across United States. Increases in interest rates and/or continuing weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2008, most of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate mortgage loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loan Portfolio” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the loan portfolio. We Have A High Concentration Of Loans Secured By Real Estate And A Continued Long Term Downturn In The Real Estate Market, For Any Reason, Could Further Hurt Our Business And Prospects. Our real estate-secured loans are concentrated in the northern Nevada and greater Sacramento, California areas. A downturn in those local economies has had a material adverse effect on some of our borrowers’ ability to repay these loans due to either loss of borrower’s employment or a reduction in borrower’s business. Further, such reduction in those local economies has severely impaired the value of the real property held as collateral. As a result, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans has been reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and it would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. 29 Table of Contents If A Significant Number Of Borrowers, Guarantors And Related Parties Fail To Perform As Required By The Terms Of Their Loans, We Will Sustain Losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and guarantees. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, that management believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance, and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company’s Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. The Company Is Subject To Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly On Economic Conditions In Northern Nevada And Northern California. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of northern Nevada, northern California and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers across the northern Nevada and northern California regions. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. Economic conditions in northern Nevada and northern California are declining and are expected to continue to decline. A significant decline in general economic conditions, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Be Adversely Affected By The Soundness Of Other Financial Institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Operates In A Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include “mega-banks” “too big to fail” banks, investment banks, national, regional, and community banks within the various markets where the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. · The ability to expand the Company’s market position. · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands, within the scope of company profitability. · The rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. · Customer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service. · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents The Company Is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. It is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the near future in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1. Business and NOTE 16 - Regulatory Capital Requirements in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is located elsewhere in this report. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject The Company to Additional Risks. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/ or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Bank Holdings May Require Dividends From Nevada Security Bank. The Bank Holdings is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It may require dividends in the future from Nevada Security Bank to pay the interest and principal on The Bank Holdings’ Trust Preferred Securities in addition to other expenses. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that Nevada Security Bank may pay to The Bank Holdings. Also, The Bank Holdings’ right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event Nevada Security Bank is unable to pay dividends to The Bank Holdings, The Bank Holdings may not be able to service its debt or pay its obligations. The inability to receive dividends from Nevada Security Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1. Business and NOTE 16- Regulatory Capital Requirements in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. 32 Table of Contents Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt the Company’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value. The Company may seek merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: · Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. · Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. · Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. · Potential disruption to the Company’s business. · Potential diversion of the Company’s management’s time and attention. · The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. · Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. · Potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. The Company occasionally evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. During 2006, the Company acquired NNB Holdings, Inc., Rocky Mountain Exchange and 75% of Granite Exchange, Inc. During 2007, and 2008, the Company acquired the remaining 25% of Granite Exchange, Inc. The Company May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled People. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel of the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company’s Information Systems May Experience An Interruption Or Breach In Security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, some of which are provided by outside vendors on whom the Company extensively relies. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents The Company May Be Subjected To Claims and Litigation Pertaining To Fiduciary Responsibility. From time to time, customers may make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact The Company’s Business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With The Company’s Common Stock The Company’s Stock Price Can Be Volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: · Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. · Recommendations by securities analysts. · Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company. · News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. · Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. · New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. · Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors. · Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. · Changes in government regulations. · Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The Trading Volume In The Company’s Common Stock Is Less Than That Of Other Larger Financial Services Companies. Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the Company’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. 34 Table of Contents The Company’s Continued NASDAQ Listing Is Subject To Certain Requirements, Including Minimum Bid Price. The closing bid price of Company common stock has recently been less than $1.00. Our stock is listed on NASDAQ which has listing rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and a minimum value of publicly held shares. Although such listing rules have been suspended until July 20, 2009 for issuers of common stock, after this date the standard listing criteria are likely to be re-imposed whereby a security is considered deficient if it fails to achieve at least a $1.00 closing bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Once deficient, Capital Markets issuers are provided one automatic 180 day period to regain compliance. Thereafter, these issuers could receive an additional 180 day compliance period if they comply with all Capital Market initial inclusion requirements except bid price. Although financial industry stocks are currently out of favor, the Company believes it currently meets all Capital Market initial inclusion requirements except bid price. An Investment In The Company’s Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company (FDIC), any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Company’s Articles Of Incorporation and By-Laws As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have An Anti-Takeover Effect. Provisions of the Company’s articles of incorporation and by-laws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Associated With The Company’s Industry The Earnings Of Financial Services Companies Are Significantly Affected By General Business And Economic Conditions. The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. The continuing deterioration in economic conditions in the United States and abroad could result in a further increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Company’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial Services Companies Depend On The Accuracy And Completeness Of Information About Customers And Counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Consumers May Decide Not To Use Banks To Complete Their Financial Transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that while historically have involved banks, are now available through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no comments received from Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports that are unresolved. 