Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Description of Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules Signatures Appendix 2 PART I This Annual Report and Form 10-K may be deemed to include forward looking statements, which management believes are a benefit to shareholders. These forward looking statements describe management’s expectations regarding future events and developments such as future operating results, growth in loans and deposits, continued success of the Company’s style of banking and providing financial services and the strength of the local economies. The word “will,” “believe,” “expect,” “should,” and “anticipate” and words of similar construction are intended in part to help identify forward looking statements. Future events are difficult to predict, and the expectations described above are subject to risk and uncertainty that may cause actual results to differ materially and adversely. In addition to discussions about risks and uncertainties set forth from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward looking statements include, among other, the following possibilities: (1) local, national, and international economic conditions are less favorable than expected or have a more direct and pronounced effect on the Company than expected and adversely affect the Company’s ability to continue its internal growth at historical rates and maintain the quality of its earning assets; (2) changes in interest rates reduce interest margins more than expected and negatively affect funding sources; (3) projected business increases following strategic expansion or opening or acquiring new branches are lower than expected; (4) costs or difficulties related to the integration of acquisitions are greater than expected; (5) competitive pressure among financial institutions increases significantly; (6) legislation or regulatory requirements or changes adversely affect the businesses in which the Company is engaged; and (7) the Company’s inability to realize the efficiencies it expects to receive from its investments in personnel and infrastructure. ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company The Bank Holdings The Bank Holdings is a bank holding company incorporated in Nevada on January 17, 2003 and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. We conduct banking operations through our principal subsidiary, Nevada Security Bank, a Nevada state-chartered commercial bank. We and Nevada Security Bank are both headquartered in Reno, Nevada at 9990 Double R Boulevard. We acquired all of the outstanding shares of Nevada Security Bank on August 29, 2003. On November 6, 2006, the Company acquired through merger NNB Holdings, Inc. in Reno, Nevada and its subsidiary bank Northern Nevada Bank whose branches became part of Nevada Security Bank. During the first quarter of 2006, the Company acquired two qualified intermediary companies, Rocky Mountain Exchange (formerly known as Big Sky Property Exchange) and 75% of Granite Exchange, Inc. which facilitate tax-deferred real estate transactions under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. Rocky Mountain Exchange is located in Bozeman Montana, and Granite Exchange is headquartered in Roseville, California and has other sales offices in Hawaii and Las Vegas, Nevada. Qualified intermediaries select the financial institution to hold depositor accounts created as part of the exchange transactions. The exchange balances deposited into the Bank should increase the Bank’s core deposits, decrease the Bank’s loan to deposit ratio, and support future loan growth. These subsidiaries have been consolidated on the Company’s books. The Company’s other direct subsidiaries are The Bank Holdings Statutory Trust I, a Connecticut statutory trust which was formed in November, 2005 solely to facilitate the issuance of variable rate capital trust pass through securities and NNB Holdings Statutory Trust I which was formed in June 2005 as a subsidiary of NNB Holdings, Inc., and was acquired by the Company in the merger with NNB Holdings, Inc. NNB Holdings Statutory Trust I is a Delaware Statutory Trust also formed to facilitate the issuance of capital trust pass through securities. The additional regulatory capital generated through the securities has enabled the Company to 3 follow previously established expansion plans without an impairment of risk-based capital ratios. Pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 46 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46), The Bank Holdings Statutory Trust I and NNB Holdings Statutory Trust I are not reflected on a consolidated basis in the financial statements of the Company. The Bank Holdings has twelve full-time employees who are not also employees of Nevada Security Bank. The Company exists primarily for the purpose of holding the stock of the Bank and of other such subsidiaries it may acquire or establish. References herein to the “Company” include the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. The Company’s stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol TBHS, and as such the Company is subject to NASDAQ rules and regulations including those related to corporate governance. The Company is also subject to the periodic reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) which requires the Company to file annual, quarterly and other current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company is subject to additional regulations including, but not limited to, the proxy and tender offer rules promulgated by the SEC under Sections 13 and 14 of the Exchange Act; the reporting requirements of directors, executive officers and principal shareholders regarding transactions in the Company’s common stock and short-swing profits rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 14 of the Exchange Act; and certain additional reporting requirements by principal shareholders of the Company promulgated by the SEC under Section 13 of the Exchange Act. The Company’s strategy has been to profitably grow its business through internal growth and selective acquisitions. We continue to look for profitable expansion opportunities in existing and contiguous markets. At December 31, 2006, the Company had consolidated assets of $651.5 million, gross loans of $463.9 million, deposits of $497.0 million and shareholder’s equity of $73.6 million. The Company’s principal sources of income are from interest earning assets held in portfolio, as well as dividends from the Bank, which are currently restricted, and the income from the qualified intermediary companies. The Company intends to explore supplemental sources of income in the future. The Company’s website is www.thebankholdings.com. Copies of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through the Company’s website (www.thebankholdings.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed the material with, or furnished it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. This information is also available at www.sec.gov, Bank Holdings CIK#000-1234383. The 1031 Division During March 2006, the Federal Reserve Board approved the Company’s acquisition of Rocky Mountain Exchange (formerly Big Sky Property Exchange) of Bozeman, Montana and Granite Exchange Inc., of Roseville, California. These companies are qualified intermediaries under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code. The websites for these companies are: www.rockymountainexchange.com for Rocky Mountain Exchange and www.ges1031.com for Granite Exchange. These companies have eleven full time equivalent employees. A qualified intermediary (“QI”) is the professional provider of the mandatory mechanics of a 1031 exchange. The use of a qualified intermediary, as an independent party to facilitate a tax-deferred exchange, is a safe harbor established by Treasury Regulations. These qualified intermediaries are frequently referred to as accommodators or exchange facilitators. When the taxpayer engages the services of “QI” pursuant to an 4 exchange agreement, the IRS does not consider the taxpayer to be in receipt of any funds from the transaction. The sales proceeds go directly to the QI, which holds them until they are needed to acquire any replacement property. The QI then delivers the funds directly to the closing agent who completes, generally with a title company, the deeding of the property directly to the taxpayer. Without a QI, and pursuant to an exchange agreement, the IRS may not define a transaction as an exchange, thereby making it ineligible for tax deferment status. The theory behind Section 1031 is that when a property owner has reinvested the sale proceeds into another property, the economic gain has not been realized in a way that generates funds to pay any tax. This means that the taxpayers investment is still the same, only the form has changed (e.g. from a rental house to a rented six-unit apartment building). Therefore, it would be unfair to force the taxpayer to pay tax on a “form, not substance”, transfer. These like-kind exchanges under Section 1031 are tax deferred, not tax-free. When the replacement property is ultimately sold, (not as part of another exchange) the original deferred gain, plus any additional gain realized since the purchase of the replacement property, is subject to tax. The Company, through its 1031 Division, places funds that may be generated from such transactions, in the subsidiary bank, or in other financial institutions where at least a portion of such funds is guaranteed by FDIC insurance. Such funds are of a short term (less than 180 days until maturity) nature, and are traditionally characterized as savings or money market deposits. The address of the Company’s 1031 QI’s are as follows: Rocky Mountain Exchange: 1087 Stoneridge Drive Bozeman, Montana 59718 (866) 554-1031 Purchased: March 24, 2006 Granite Exchange: 1400 Rocky Ridge Drive, Suite 280 Roseville, California 95661 (877) 937-1031 Purchased: March 28, 2006 The Bank Nevada Security Bank Nevada Security Bank was incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on February 26, 2001, and was licensed by the Nevada Commissioner of Financial Institutions and commenced operations as a Nevada state-chartered bank on December 27, 2001. The Bank’s website is: www.nevadasecuritybank.com. Nevada Security Bank (NSB) operates from its head office in Reno. Additional Reno branches are Moana and MaeAnne. The Bank also has branch offices in Carson City, Sparks, and Incline Village, Nevada as well as Roseville, California. Incline Village is located on the north shore of Lake Tahoe, Nevada, approximately 25 miles south of Reno, Nevada. Roseville is located in the Sacramento, California environs, about 124 miles southwest of Reno, Nevada. That branch is separately branded as Silverado Bank, a division of NSB. Silverado Bank also focuses on government guaranteed loans through the Small Business Administration, or SBA. The addresses of our locations are as follows: 5 Northern Nevada Main 9990 Double R Boulevard Incline Village: 910 Tahoe Boulevard, Suite 101 Office: Reno, Nevada 98521 Incline Village, Nevada 89451 (775) 853-8600 (775) 832-8100 Date of opening: 12/27/01 Date of opening: 3/6/02 MaeAnne 1680 Robb Drive Spanish Springs: 150 Isidor Court #203 Reno: Reno, Nevada 89523 Sparks, NV 89431 (775) 746-9800 Phone: (775) 424-1500 Date of opening: 10/11/04 Date of Opening: 3/27/06 Moana 3490 So. Virginia St. Carson City: 3120 Highway 50 East #1 Reno: Reno, Nevada 89502 Carson City, NV 89701 (775) 689-6555 (775) 687-2323 Date of Opening: 10/23/00 Date of Opening: 5/9/05 Operations 5450 Riggins Court #5 Center Reno, Nevada Reno: (775) 689-6575 Date of Opening: 8/11/00 Northern California Roseville: 2270 Douglas Blvd., Ste 220 Roseville, California 95991-4239 (916) 787-1900 Date of opening: 3/18/05 Rancho 2865 Sunrise Blvd. Ste 100 Cordova: Rancho Cordova, CA 95742 Date of opening: Second quarter of 2007 As an independent community oriented commercial bank, Nevada Security Bank offers a full range of consumer and commercial banking services primarily to the business and professional community and individuals located in two primary areas; Washoe county and Carson City, Nevada and Placer County, California. Nevada Security Bank has a full complement of lending activities, including commercial and industrial, real estate construction, real estate mortgage, as well as agricultural and consumer loans, with particular emphasis on short and medium-term obligations. Nevada Security Bank’s loan portfolio is not concentrated in any one industry, although approximately 80% of Nevada Security Bank’s loans are secured by real estate. A loan may be secured (in whole or in part) by real estate even though the purpose of the loan is not to facilitate the purchase or development of real estate. As of December 31, 2006, the principal areas in which we directed our lending activities, and the percentage of our total loan portfolio for which each of those areas was responsible, were as follows: (i) loans secured by real estate 79.5%; (ii) commercial and industrial (including USDA) loans, 18.8%, and (iii) consumer loans 1.7%. See Appendix 6 for further information. 6 Nevada Security Bank offers a wide range of deposit instruments including personal and business checking accounts and savings accounts, interest-bearing negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, money market accounts and time certificates of deposit. Most of Nevada Security Bank’s deposits are attracted from individuals and from small and medium-sized business-related sources. Its deposits are insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act up to applicable limits, and subject to regulations by that federal agency. The Bank is subject to periodic examinations of its operations and verification of compliance with applicable laws and regulations issued by the FDIC and the Nevada Financial Institutions Division. As of December 31, 2006 the Bank had 9,512 deposit accounts with balances totaling approximately $447.0 million and as of December 31, 2005 4,196 deposit accounts with balances totaling approximately $338.2 million, compared to 3,549 deposit accounts with balances totaling approximately $188.3 million at December 31, 2004. We attract deposits through our customer oriented product mix, competitive pricing, and convenient locations where all are provided with the highest level of customer service. Further, we offer shared ATM and point-of-sale (POS) networks to allow customer access to national and international funds transfer networks, as well as remote capture devises to speed a customer’s deposit funding efficiency. In addition to the loan and deposit services Nevada Security Bank also offers a wide range of specialized services designed to attract and meet the needs of commercial customers and personal account holders. These services include cashiers’ checks, travelers’ checks and foreign drafts. Nevada Security Bank does not operate a trust department; however, it has made an arrangement with a private trust company to offer trust services to its customers on request. Most of Nevada Security Bank’s business originates from within Washoe and Douglas Counties, Nevada; however, Placer County, California is a substantial source of additional business through Silverado Bank, a division of Nevada Security Bank. Neither Nevada Security Bank’s business nor liquidity is seasonal, and there has been no material effect upon Nevada Security Bank’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position as a result of federal, state or local environmental regulation. The Company The Company has not engaged in any material research activities relating to the development of new products or services during the last two fiscal years, however, a substantial investment of time and intellectual capital has been directed to the improvement of existing Bank services during the last twenty-four months. Specifically, during 2006 we opened the Bank’s fourth branch in the Spanish Springs area. In addition, we completed the purchase of Big Sky Property Exchange in Bozeman, Montana and the merger of Granite Exchange, LLC. into Granite Exchange Inc.; we acquired NNB Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiary bank Northern Nevada Bank. We began the process to open a second branch office in the northern California market in Rancho Cordova which is anticipated to open during the second quarter of 2007. Further, the officers and employees of the Bank are continually engaged in marketing activities, including the evaluation and development of new products and services, among which are “free checking” and more comprehensive electronic banking capabilities to enable the Bank to retain and improve its competitive position in its service areas. During 2006 the Bank tested remote deposit capture for implementation and roll-out during 2007. Other alternatives for future electronic banking delivery systems are currently being evaluated in an effort to keep pace with evolving technology, and to continue to provide superior service to our various individual customers and entities. We hold no patents or licenses (other than licenses required by appropriate bank regulatory agencies or cities in which we conduct business), franchises or concessions. We are not dependent on a single customer or group of related customers for a material portion of our deposits, nor is a material portion of our loans concentrated within a single industry or group of related industries, except as noted in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The amounts expended in compliance with new government and regulatory initiatives related to anti-terrorism, corporate responsibility, and customer privacy 7 have substantially increased over the past few years, and the amount specifically related to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance is expected to increase during 2007 and subsequent years. Our mission is to be an organization of excellence by: · Providing quality banking products and services, offered personally and professionally; · Committing our resources, energy and leadership to our communities; · Creating value for our shareholders; · Conducting our business with integrity and respect for all; and · Fulfilling potential opportunities for growth and development. Our business strategy is to increase shareholder and franchise value by continuing to expand our geographic footprint through new branches, regional and/or loan production offices, and/or strategic acquisitions as they may become available. We expect to achieve these goals with our core group of experienced bankers, meeting the needs of our constituent shareholder, customer, and employee groups. This will be accomplished by understanding our customers’ needs and expectations and addressing each of them in a focused and responsive fashion, on a timely basis. Further, we expect to constantly refine and redefine our asset and liability portfolios through growth and product line diversification, increase our base of higher yielding assets as the economic cycle changes, and improve our efficiency ratio as we leverage our talents and capital. Safety and Soundness Standards The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines establishing safety and soundness standards for all insured depository institutions. Thos guidelines relate to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan underwriting and documentation, compensation and interest rate exposure. In general, the standards are designed to assist the federal banking agencies in identifying and addressing problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If an institution fails to meet these standards, the appropriate federal banking agency may require the institution to submit a compliance plan and institute enforcement proceedings if an acceptable compliance plan is not submitted. Competition There are a large number of depository institutions including savings banks, commercial banks, and credit unions in the northern Nevada and the northern California counties in which the Company has offices. The Bank, like other depository institutions, is operating in a rapidly changing environment. Non-depository financial service institutions primarily in the securities and insurance industries, have become competitors for retail savings and investment funds. Mortgage banking/brokerage firms are actively competing for residential mortgage business. In addition to offering competitive interest rates, the principal methods used by banking institutions to attract deposits include the offering of a variety of services and convenient office locations and business hours. The primary factors in competing for loans are interest rates and rate adjustment provisions, loan maturities, loan fees, and the quality of service to borrowers and brokers. Nevada Security Bank competes for loans and deposits with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, finance companies, money market funds, credit unions and other financial institutions, including a number that are much larger than Nevada Security Bank. As of June 30, 2006, the most recent date for which data is available from the FDIC, there were 85 banking offices, including 51 offices of three major chain banks (Bank of America, US Bank and Wells Fargo), operating within Nevada Security Bank’s primary market areas in Washoe County. These three major chain banks were reported to have held 25.8% of the deposits in Washoe County at June 30, 2006. Further, the single Charles Schwab Bank NA, office alone holds an additional 56.2% of the county’s reported total deposits. Nevada Security Bank’s share of such market at that date was reported to be 1.78% of the county’s $15.2 billion deposit base (4.06% exclusive of Schwab), as compared to 1.73% of 8 the county’s $11.2 billion deposit base on June 30, 2005 (2.53% exclusive of Schwab), and compared to 0.73% of the county’s $9.2 billion deposit base at June 30, 2004. At June 30, 2006 the Bank was the second largest independent bank headquartered in northern Nevada. Of the $4.0 billion change in the county’s deposit base between June 30, 2005 and 2006, $3.8 billion or 95% was represented by the Schwab office. There has been increased competition for deposit and loan business over the last several years as a result of deregulation. Many of the major commercial banks operating in Nevada Security Bank’s market areas offer certain services, such as trust and international banking services, which Nevada Security Bank does not offer directly. Additionally, banks with larger capitalization have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve larger customers. At December 31, 2006, the legal lending limit for Nevada Security Bank was approximately $16.8 million. To a great extent, the super-regional state banks and multi-state chain banks also have the advantage of geographically diffused name recognition and may actively pursue wide-ranging advertising campaigns and branding tactics which are not available to a local community institution, due to economies of scale. Further, other competitors have entered banking markets with focused products targeted at specific highly profitable customer segments. Many competitors are able to compete across geographic boundaries that are blocked to us and provide customers with alternatives to traditional banking services and nearly all significant products. These competitive trends are likely to continue. In addition to competition from insured depository institutions, principal competitors for deposits and loans have been mortgage companies, insurance companies, investment brokerage houses, credit card companies and even retail establishments offering investment vehicles such as mutual funds, annuities and money market funds, as well as traditional bank-like services such as check access to money market funds, or cash advances on credit card accounts. In order to compete with the other financial institutions in its principal marketing areas, Nevada Security Bank relies principally upon local promotional activities, personal contacts by its officers, directors and employees, and close connections with its communities. The Bank primarily targets its general commercial banking services to businesses, professional concerns, developers and individuals residing in or doing business in the greater Reno, Sparks, Carson City and Incline Village communities in northern Nevada, and the Roseville community in northern California. As an independent community bank, management emphasizes quality service, efficiency and personal attention to the needs of its customers. The Bank’s wide range of deposit accounts is designed to attract businesses, professionals and individuals as depositors. Management has hired competent and professional banking staff in its branches to focus on the financial needs of its customers, and various promotional opportunities have been made available to customers through newspaper advertising and flyers. The Bank’s full complement of lending products includes commercial lines of credit and term loans, credit lines to individuals, checking overdraft credit lines, professional loans, SBA loans, equipment loans, accounts receivable financing and real estate and construction loans. The Bank offers attractive and competitive programs for lot loans, owner-builders of personal residences, and commercial term real estate loan financing. Consumer loans offered include auto loans, home improvement loans, and home equity lines of credit. To accommodate borrowers with loan requests which exceed the Bank’s legal lending limit, the Bank has established participation arrangements with correspondent banks to facilitate approval and funding. Management has hired a professional and competent lending staff comprised of numerous commercial and real estate lenders with substantial years of knowledge, experience and expertise in the northern Nevada and northern California markets. 9 These individuals have expertise in consumer, real estate and commercial lending, in addition to current knowledge of government lending programs, and all areas of deposit management facilities. When competing one-on-one with the chain banks, we feel our strength lies in our capabilities at the individual level. The Bank offers other services including an internet banking alternative, cash management, credit cards, wire transfers, ATM networks, courier, night depository facilities, safe deposit boxes, etc. All services stress convenient, personal attention and efficient, timely presentation for the Bank’s clientele base. In certain instances, we have been unable to compete for deposit acquisition business due solely to our lack of extensive and well known operating history. In these situations, there are few alternatives available to us. However, we may have other specialized services to overcome some objections to our relatively short five full years of operating history, such as those available from correspondent banks, the highly technological alternative delivery channels available through our website, and the ever-present capabilities of our well-seasoned and extraordinarily capable staff. The Bank’s Board of Directors, management and staff are active in local civic, charitable and community organizations and events, soliciting business referrals and generating profitable business opportunities for the Bank. The Bank relies on its independent status, flexibility and timely response to provide greater personal service to customers. The Bank emphasizes personal contacts with potential customers by management, the Board of Directors and staff to develop local promotional activities and to develop specialized or streamlined services. The Bank prides itself on being a local bank for local people and businesses. Subsequent Events The Company declared a 5% stock dividend to shareholders of record February 15, 2007 with an ex-dividend date of February 13, 2007. For every 20 shares of common stock held, shareholders will receive one (1) additional share of common stock. No fractional shares will be issued; fractional shares will be rounded up to the nearest whole share. The transfer agent mailed certificates representing the 5% stock dividend on or about March 1, 2007. In January 2007 the Company acquired an additional 5% of Granite Exchange, Inc. at a predetermined cost of $265,000 from one of its minority shareholders. This transaction will increase the Company’s ownership to 80% and will allow the Company to include Granite Exchange in its consolidated tax returns. Employees As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 121 employees. Of these, Nevada Security Bank has 109 employees, the 1031 division has eleven employees, and the parent has one full time employee. On a full-time equivalent basis, the Company’s staff level was 115.7 at December 31, 2006, as compared to 57.2 at December 31, 2005 and 43.9 at December 31, 2004. Staff was added during 2006 primarily due to the Company’s purchase of the 1031 companies, acquisition of NNB Holdings, Inc, and the addition of other professional staff at other locations. None of our employees is represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management of the Company believes its employee relations are satisfactory. Recent Accounting Pronouncements FASB 159 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115. SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at specified election dates. The fair value option may be applied instrument by instrument with certain exceptions and is applied generally on an irrevocable basis to the entire instrument. SFAS 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Early adoption is permitted under certain circumstances. Management is evaluating the impact this Statement may have on the Company’s financial statements. 10 FASB 157 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. The statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The statement emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement and establishes a fair value hierarchy. This statement also clarifies how the assumptions of risk and the effect of restrictions on sales or use of an asset effect the valuation. SFAS 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. Management is evaluating the impact this Statement may have on the Company’s financial statements. EITF 06-04 In September 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 06-4, Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements, and EITF Issue No. 06-5, Accounting for Purchases of Life Insurance — Determining the Amount That Could Be Realized in Accordance with FASB Technical Bulletin No. 85-4, Accounting for Purchases of Life Insurance. EITF 06-4 provides that an employer should recognize a liability for future benefits based on the substantive agreement with the employee. The Issue should be applied to fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007, with earlier application permitted. EITF 06-5 provides that in determining the amount recognized as an asset, a policyholder should consider the cash surrender value as well as any additional amounts included in the contractual terms of the policy that will be paid upon surrender. The amount that could be realized should be calculated at the individual policy level and consider any probable contractual limitations, including the exclusion of any additional amounts paid for the surrender of an entire group of policies. The Issue is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. The banking subsidiary of the Company has life insurance arrangements. We are currently evaluating the impact of adoption of this rule on the Company’s financial statements and results of operations. SAB 108 In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements, expressing the staff’s view regarding the process of quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires that when quantifying misstatements for the purposes of evaluating materiality, the effects on both the income statement and balance sheet should be considered. The Company has evaluated the requirements of SAB 108, and we have determined that the adoption of these issues will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements or results of operations. FASB FIN 48 In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, which provides clarification for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. This Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This Interpretation also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. The Interpretation is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2006. Management does not believe that the implementation will have a material effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The list of recent accounting pronouncements noted above, while not an exhaustive list, includes those which we believe will, or may, have the greatest likelihood of application to the Company’s consolidated balance sheets and/or consolidated statements of operations. We believe that adoption of these standards will not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, earnings per share or cash flow, however, no absolute assurance can be given that this in fact will occur. 11 Regulation and Supervision The following discussion sets forth certain of the material elements of the significant regulatory framework provided by federal and state regulatory agencies applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries and provides certain specific information relevant to the Company. The regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the insurance funds administered by the FDIC and not for the protection of security holders. To the extent that the following information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in applicable status, regulations or regulatory policy may have a material effect on our business. The following discussion of statutes and regulations is only a brief summary and does not purport to be complete. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to such statutes and regulations. No assurance can be given that such statues or regulations will not change in the future. The Company The Company is subject to the periodic reporting requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) which require the Company to file annual, quarterly and other current reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company is also subject to additional regulations including, but not limited to, the proxy and tender offer rules promulgated by the SEC under Sections 13 and 14 of the Exchange Act; the reporting requirements of directors, executive officers and principle shareholders regarding transactions in the Company’s Common Stock and short–swing profits rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 16 of the Exchange Act; and certain additional reporting requirements by principal shareholders of the Company promulgated by the SEC under Section 13 of the Exchange Act. The Company is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (“BHCA”) and is registered as such with the Federal Reserve Board. A bank holding company is required to file with the Federal Reserve Board annual reports and other information regarding its business operations and those of its subsidiaries. It is also subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board and is required to obtain Federal Reserve Board approval before acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after such acquisition, it would directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the voting stock of that bank, unless its already owns a majority of the voting stock of that bank. The Federal Reserve Board has by regulation determined certain activities in which a bank holding company may or may not conduct business. A bank holding company must engage, with certain exceptions, in the business of banking or managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to or performing services for its subsidiary banks. The permissible activities and affiliations of certain bank holding companies have recently been expanded. (See “Financial Modernization Act” below.) The Company, it’s qualified intermediary exchange companies and Bank are deemed to be affiliates of each other within the meaning set forth in the Federal Reserve Act and are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. This means, for example, that there are limitations on loans by the Bank to affiliates, and that all affiliate transactions must satisfy certain limitations and otherwise be on terms and conditions at least as favorable to the Bank as would be available for non-affiliates. The Federal Reserve Board has a policy that bank holding companies must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary banks. It is the Federal Reserve Bank’s position that bank holding companies should stand ready to use their available resources to provide adequate capital to their subsidiary banks during periods of financial stress or adversity. Bank holding companies should also maintain the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting their subsidiary banks. The Federal Reserve Board also has the authority to regulate bank holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest rate ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt. Under certain circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board may require the Company to file written notice and obtain its approval prior to purchasing or redeeming the Company’s equity securities. 12 The Bank As a Nevada state-chartered bank whose accounts are insured by the FDIC up to a maximum of $100,000 per depositor, the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and regular examination by the Nevada Financial Institutions Division (the “FID”) and the FDIC. In addition, while the Bank is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, it is subject to certain regulations of the Federal Reserve Board. The regulations of these agencies govern most aspects of the Bank’s business, including the making of periodic reports by the Bank and the Bank’s activities relating to dividends, investments, loans, borrowings, capital requirements, certain check-clearing activities, branching, mergers and acquisitions, reserves against deposits and numerous other areas. Supervision, legal action and examination of the Bank by the DFI and FDIC is generally intended to protect depositors and is not intended for the protection of shareholders. The earnings and growth of the Bank are largely dependent on its ability to maintain a favorable differential or “spread” between the yield on its interest-earning assets and the rate paid on its deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. As a result, the Bank’s performance is influenced by general economic conditions, both domestic and foreign, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government, and the policies of the regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board implements national monetary policies (such as seeking to curb inflation and combat recession) by its open market operations in United States Government securities, by adjusting the required level of reserves for financial institutions subject to its reserve requirements and by varying the discount rate applicable to borrowings by banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board in these areas influence the growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and also affect interest rates charged on both loans and deposits. The nature and impact of any future changes in monetary policies cannot be reasonably predicted. Capital Adequacy Requirements The Company and the Bank are subject to the regulations of the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, respectively, governing capital adequacy. The Bank and the Company currently exceed all regulatory minimums. Those regulations incorporate both risk-based and leverage capital requirements. Each of the federal regulators has established risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for the banks or bank holding companies it regulates, which set total capital requirements and define capital in terms of “core capital elements,” or Tier 1 capital; and “supplemental capital elements,” or Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital is generally defined as the sum of the core capital elements less goodwill and certain other deductions, notably the unrealized net gains or losses (after tax adjustments) on available for sale investment securities carried at fair market value. The following items are defined as core capital elements: (i) common shareholders’ equity; (ii) qualifying non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus (not to exceed 25% of tier 1 capital); and (iii) minority interest in the equity of consolidated subsidiaries. Supplementary capital elements include: (i) allowance for loan and lease losses (but not more than 1.25% of an institution’s risk-weighted assets); (ii) perpetual preferred stock and related surplus not qualifying as core capital; (iii) hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt and mandatory convertible debt instruments; and (iv) term subordinated debt and intermediate-term preferred stock and related surplus. The maximum amount of supplemental capital elements which qualifies as Tier 2 capital is limited to 100% of Tier 1 capital, net of goodwill. The minimum required ratio of qualifying capital to total risk-weighted assets is 8.0% (“Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio”), at least one-half of which must be in the form of Tier 1 capital, and the minimum required ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets is 4.0% (“Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio”). Risk-based capital ratios are calculated to provide a measure of capital that reflects the degree of risk associated with a banking organization’s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets, and transactions, such as letters of credit and recourse arrangements, which are recorded as off-balance sheet items. Under the risk-based capital guidelines, the nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit-equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are multiplied by one of several risk adjustment percentages, which range from 0% for assets with low credit risk, such as certain U.S. Treasury securities, to 100% for assets with relatively high credit risk, such as business loans. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Bank’s Total Risk-Based Capital ratios were 13 12.98% and 12.51%, respectively, and its Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratios were 9.97% and 11.42%, respectively. The risk-based capital requirements also take into account concentrations of credit (i.e., relatively large proportions of loans involving one borrower, industry, location, collateral or loan type) and the risks of “non-traditional” activities (those that have not customarily been part of the banking business). The regulations require institutions with high or inordinate levels of risk to operate with higher minimum capital standards, and authorize the regulators to review an institution’s management of such risks in assessing an institution’s capital adequacy. Additionally, the risk-based capital regulations also include exposure to interest rate risk as a factor that the regulators will consider in evaluating a bank’s capital adequacy. Interest rate risk is the exposure of a bank’s current and future earnings and equity capital arising from adverse movements in interest rates. While interest rate risk is inherent in a bank’s role as financial intermediary, it introduces volatility to earnings and to the economic value of the bank. The FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board also require the maintenance of a leverage capital ratio designed to supplement risk-based capital guidelines. Banks and bank holding companies that have received the highest rating of the five categories used by regulators to rate banks and are not anticipating or experiencing any significant growth must maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital (net of all intangibles) to adjusted total assets (“Leverage Capital Ratio”) of at least 3%. All other institutions are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 100 to 200 basis points above the 3% minimum, for a minimum of 4% to 5%. Pursuant to federal regulations, banks must maintain capital levels commensurate with the level of risk to which they are exposed, including the volume and severity of problem loans; federal regulators may, however, set higher capital requirements when a bank’s particular circumstances warrant. The Bank’s Leverage Capital Ratio was 8.04% and 8.96% on December 31, 2006 and 2005 respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s leverage capital ratio was 9.85%, as compared to 10.06% at December 31, 2005. Both of these ratios exceeded regulatory minimums, and since the most recent balance sheet date, management does not believe conditions or events have changed the institution’s category. For more information on the Company’s capital, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation–Capital Resources. Risk–based capital ratio requirements are discussed in greater detail in the following section. Prompt Corrective Action Provisions Federal law requires each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured financial institutions, including but not limited to those that fall below one or more proscribed minimum capital ratios. The federal banking agencies have by regulation defined the following five capital categories: “well–capitalized” (Total Risk–Based Capital Ratio of 10%; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 6%; and Leverage Ratio of 5%); “adequately capitalized” (Total Risk–Based Capital Ratio of 8%; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of 4%; and Leverage Ratio of 4%) (or 3% if the institution receives the highest rating from its primary regulator); “undercapitalized” (Total Risk–Based Capital Ratio of less than 8%; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of less than 4%; and Leverage Ratio of less than 4%) (or 3% if the institution receives the highest rating from its primary regulator); “significantly undercapitalized” (Total Risk–Based Capital Ratio of less than 6%; Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio of less than 3%; and Leverage Ratio of less than 3%); and “critically undercapitalized” (tangible equity to total assets less than 2%). A bank may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if after notice and the opportunity for a hearing, the appropriate federal agency finds an unsafe or unsound condition or practice so warrants, but no bank may be treated as “critically undercapitalized” unless its actual capital ratio warrants such treatment. At each successively lower capital category, an insured bank is subject to increased restrictions on its operations. For example, a bank is generally prohibited from paying management fees to any controlling persons or from making capital distributions if to do so would make the bank “undercapitalized.” Asset growth and branching restrictions apply to undercapitalized banks, which are required to submit written capital restoration plans meeting specified requirements (including a guarantee by the parent holding company, if any). 14 “Significantly undercapitalized” banks are subject to broad regulatory authority, including among other things, capital directives, forced mergers, restrictions on the rates of interest they may pay on deposits, restrictions on asset growth and activities, and prohibitions on paying bonuses or increasing compensation to senior executive officers without FDIC approval. Even more severe restrictions apply to critically undercapitalized banks. Most importantly, except under limited circumstances, not later than 90 days after an insured bank becomes critically undercapitalized the appropriate federal banking agency is required to appoint a conservator or receiver for the bank. In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions, insured banks may be subject to potential actions by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses or for violations of any law, rule, regulation or any condition imposed in writing by the agency or any written agreement with the agency. Enforcement actions may include the issuance of cease and desist orders, termination of insurance of deposits (in the case of a bank), the imposition of civil money penalties, the issuance of directives to increase capital, formal and informal agreements, or removal and prohibition orders against “institution–affiliated” parties. Safety and Soundness Standards The federal banking agencies have also adopted guidelines establishing safety and soundness standards for all insured depository institutions. Those guidelines relate to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan underwriting and documentation, compensation and interest rate exposure. In general, the standards are designed to assist the federal banking agencies in identifying and addressing problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If an institution fails to meet these standards, the appropriate federal banking agency may require the institution to submit a compliance plan and may institute enforcement proceedings if an acceptable compliance plan is not submitted. Premiums for Deposit Insurance The FDIC regulations also implement a risk–based premium system, whereby insured depository institutions are required to pay insurance premiums depending on their risk classification. Under this system, insured banks are categorized into one of three capital categories (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, and undercapitalized) and each institution is also assigned to one of three supervisor groups based on the consideration of supervisory evaluations provided by the institutions primary federal regulator. The supervisory evaluations include the results of examination findings by the primary regulator, as well as other information the primary regulator determines to be relevant. In addition, the FDIC will take into consideration such other information (such as state examination findings, if appropriate) as it determines to be relevant to the institution’s financial condition and the risk posed to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The three supervisory categories are: 1) financially sound with only a few minor weaknesses and generally corresponds to the primary federal regulators composite rate of “1” or “2” (Group A), 2) demonstrated weaknesses that could result in significant deterioration, and generally corresponds to the regulators composite rate of “3” (Group B), and 3) poses a substantial probability of loss, and generally corresponds to the regulator composite rate of “4” or “5” (Group C). The current base assessment rates (expressed as cents per $100 of deposits) are summarized as follows: Risk Category I * Minimum Maximum II III IV Annual Rates (in basis points) 5 7 10 28 43 * Rates for institutions that do not pay the minimum or maximum rate will vary between these rates. In general, while the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund maintains a reserve ratio of 1.25% or greater, no deposit insurance premiums are required. In February 2006, the FDIC Reform Act of 2005 was signed into law. Included in this legislation were provisions to merge the BIF and the Savings Association Insurance Fund into 15 one fund (the “Deposit Insurance Fund”), increase insurance coverage for retirement accounts to $250,000 and index deposit insurance levels for inflation. In addition, banks must pay an amount toward the retirement of the Financing Corporation bonds issued in the 1980’s to assist in the recovery of the savings and loan industry. This amount fluctuates but for the first quarter of 2007 was 1.22 cents per $100 of insured deposits. Community Reinvestment Act The Bank is subject to certain requirements and reporting obligations involving Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) activities. The CRA generally requires the federal banking agencies to evaluate the record of a financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local communities, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The CRA further requires the agencies to take into account a financial institution’s record of meeting its community credit needs when evaluating applications for, among other things, domestic branches, consummating mergers or acquisitions, or holding company formations. In measuring a bank’s compliance with its CRA obligations, the regulators utilize a performance—based evaluation system which bases CRA ratings on the bank’s actual lending service and investment performance, rather than on the extent to which the institution conducts needs assessments, documents community outreach activities or complies with other procedural requirements. In connection with its assessment of CRA performance, the FDIC assigns a rating of “outstanding,” “satisfactory,” or “substantial noncompliance.” The Bank was examined for CRA compliance in November 2003 when it received an “Outstanding” CRA Assessment rating. Other Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations The bank regulatory agencies are increasingly focusing attention on compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations. Examination and enforcement has become intense, and banks have been advised to carefully monitor compliance with various consumer protection laws and regulations. The federal Interagency Task Force on Fair Lending issued a policy statement on discrimination in home mortgage lending describing three methods that federal agencies will use to prove discrimination: overt evidence of discrimination, evidence of disparate treatment, and evidence of disparate impact. In addition to CRA and fair lending requirements, the Bank is subject to numerous other federal consumer protection statutes and regulations. Due to heightened regulatory concern related to compliance with consumer protection laws and regulations generally, the Bank may incur additional compliance costs or be required to expend additional funds for investments in the local communities it serves. Interstate Banking and Branching The Riegle – Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the “Interstate Banking Act”) regulates the interstate activities of banks and bank holding companies and establishes a framework for nationwide interstate banking and branching. Since June 1, 1997, a bank in one state has generally been permitted to merge with a bank in another state without the need for explicit state law authorization. However, states were given the ability to prohibit interstate mergers with banks in their own state by “opting–out” (enacting state legislation applying equality to all out-of-state banks prohibiting such mergers) prior to June 1, 1997. Since 1995, adequately capitalized and managed bank holding companies have been permitted to acquire banks located in any state, subject to two exceptions: first, any state may still prohibit bank holding companies from acquiring a bank which is less that five years old; and second, no interstate acquisition can be consummated by a bank holding company if the acquirer would control more than 10% of the deposits held by insured depository institutions nationwide or 30% or more of the deposits held by insured depository institutions in any state in which the target bank has branches. 16 A bank may establish and operate de novo branches in any state in which the bank does not maintain a branch if that state has enacted legislation to expressly permit all out-of-state banks to establish branches in that state. The changes effected by the Interstate Banking Act have increased competition in the environment in which the Bank operates to the extent that out–of–state financial institutions directly or indirectly enter the Bank’s market areas. It appears that the Interstate Banking Act has contributed to the accelerated consolidation of the banking industry. While many large out-of-state banks have already entered the Nevada market as a result of this legislation, it is not possible to predict the precise impact of this legislation on the Bank and the Company and the competitive environment in which they operate. Financial Modernization Act In November 1999, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or the GLB Act, became law, significantly changing the regulatory structure and oversight of the financial services industry. Effective March 11, 2000, the GLB Act repealed the provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act that restricted banks and securities firms from affiliating. It also revised the BHCA to permit a “qualifying” bank holding company, called a financial holding company, to engage in a full range of financial activities, including banking, insurance, securities, and merchant banking activities. It also permits qualifying bank holding companies to acquire many types of financial firms without the FRB’s prior approval. The GLB Act thus provides expanded financial affiliation opportunities for existing bank holding companies and permits other financial services providers to acquire banks and become bank holding companies without ceasing any existing financial activities. Previously, a bank holding company could only engage in activities that were “closely related to banking.” This limitation no longer applies to bank holding companies that qualify to be treated as financial holding companies. To qualify as a financial holding company, a bank holding company’s subsidiary depository institutions must be well-capitalized, well-managed and have at least a “satisfactory” Community Reinvestment Act examination rating. “Nonqualifying” bank holding companies are limited to activities that were permissible under the BHCA as of November 11, 1999. Also effective on March 11, 2000, the GLB Act changed the powers of national banks and their subsidiaries, and made similar changes in the powers of state banks and their subsidiaries. National banks may now underwrite, deal in and purchase state and local revenue bonds. A subsidiary of a national bank may now engage in financial activities that the bank cannot itself engage in, except for general insurance underwriting and real estate development and investment. In order for a subsidiary of a national bank to engage in these new financial activities, the national bank and its depository institution affiliates must be “well capitalized,” have at least “satisfactory” general, managerial and Community Reinvestment Act examination ratings, and meet other qualification requirements relating to total assets, subordinated debt, capital, risk management, and affiliate transactions. Subsidiaries of state banks can exercise the same powers as national bank subsidiaries if they satisfy the same qualifying rules that apply to national banks, except that state-chartered banks do not have to satisfy the statutory managerial and debt rating-requirements of national banks. The GLB Act also reformed the overall regulatory framework of the financial services industry. In order to implement its underlying purposes, the GLB Act preempted state laws that would restrict the types of financial affiliations that are authorized or permitted under the GLB Act, subject to specified exceptions for state insurance laws and regulations. With regard to securities laws, effective May 12, 2001, the GLB Act removed the blanket exemption for banks from being considered brokers or dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and replaced it with a number of more limited exemptions. Thus, previously exempted banks may become subject to the broker-dealer registration and supervision requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The exemption that prevented bank holding companies and banks that advise mutual funds from being considered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 was also eliminated. 17 Separately, the GLB Act imposes customer privacy requirements on any company engaged in financial activities. Under these requirements, a financial company is required to protect the security and confidentiality of customer nonpublic personal information. Also, for customers who obtain a financial product such as a loan for personal, family or household purposes, a financial company is required to disclose its privacy policy to the customer at the time the relationship is established and annually thereafter, including its policies concerning the sharing of the customer’s nonpublic personal information with affiliates and third parties. If an exemption is not available, a financial company must provide consumers with a notice of its information sharing practices that allows the consumer to reject the disclosure of its nonpublic personal information to third parties. Third parties that receive such information are subject to the same restrictions as the financial company on the reuse of the information. Finally, a financial company is prohibited from disclosing an account number or similar item to a third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing through electronic mail. Sarbanes-Oxley Act During July 2002, President Bush signed into law the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The purpose of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of corporate disclosures made pursuant to the securities laws, and for other purposes. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit a registered public accounting firm from performing specified nonaudit services contemporaneously with a mandatory audit. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also vests the audit committee of an issuer with responsibility for the appointment, compensation, and oversight of any registered public accounting firm employed to perform audit services. It requires each committee member to be a member of the board of directors of the issuer, and to be otherwise independent. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act further requires the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of an issuer to make certain certifications as to each annual or quarterly report. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires officers to forfeit specific bonuses and profits under certain circumstances. Specifically, if an issuer is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the issuer as a result of misconduct with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the issuer shall be required to reimburse the issuer for (1) any bonus or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation received by that person from the issuer during the 12-month period following the first public issuance or filing with the SEC of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement; and (2) any profits realized from the sale of securities of the issuer during that 12-month period. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also instructs the SEC to require by rule: · disclosure of all material off-balance sheet transactions and relationships that may have a material effect upon the financial status of an issuer; and · the presentation of pro forma financial information in a manner that is not misleading, and which is reconcilable with the financial condition of the issuer under generally accepted accounting principles. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also prohibits insider transactions in the company’s stock held within its pension plans during lock out periods, and any profits on such insider transactions are to be disgorged. In addition, there is a prohibition of company loans to its executives, except in certain circumstances. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also provides for a mandated internal control report and assessment with the annual report and an attestation and a report on such report by the company’s auditor. The SEC also requires the company to issue a code of ethics for senior financial officers of the company. Further, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act adds a criminal penalty of fines 18 and imprisonment of up to 10 years for securities fraud. As noted in the recent accounting pronouncements, the effective date for implementation for non-accelerated filers is July 15, 2007. Regulation W The Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) on October 31, 2002 approved a final Regulation W that comprehensively implements sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. Sections 23A and 23B and Regulation W restrict loans by a depository institution to its affiliates, asset purchases by a depository institution from its affiliates, and other transactions between a depository institution and its affiliates. Regulation W unifies in one public document the FRB’s interpretations of sections 23A and 23B. Regulation W had an effective date of April 1, 2003. Regulatory Capital Treatment of Equity Investments In December of 2001 and January of 2002, the OCC, the FRB and the FDIC adopted final rules governing the regulatory capital treatment of equity investments in nonfinancial companies held by banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies. The final rules became effective on April 1, 2002. The new capital requirements apply symmetrically to equity investments made by banks and their holding companies in nonfinancial companies under the legal authorities specified in the final rules. Among others, these include the merchant banking authority granted by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the authority to invest in small business investment companies (“SBICs”) granted by the Small Business Investment Act. Covered equity investments will be subject to a series of marginal Tier 1 capital charges, with the size of the charge increasing as the organization’s level of concentration in equity investments increases. The highest marginal charge specified in the final rules requires a 25 percent deduction from Tier 1 capital for covered investments that aggregate more than 25 percent of an organization’s Tier 1 capital. Equity investments through SBICs will be exempt from the new charges to the extent such investments, in the aggregate do not exceed 15 percent of the banking organization’s Tier 1 capital. The new charges would not apply to individual investments made by banking organizations prior to March 13, 2000. Grandfathered investments made by state banks under section 24(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act also are exempted from coverage. USA Patriot Act The terrorist attacks in September 2001, have impacted the financial services industry and led to federal legislation that attempts to address certain issues involving financial institutions. On October 26, 2001, President Bush signed into law the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”). Part of the USA Patriot Act is the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001 (“IMLA”). IMLA authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the heads of other government agencies, to adopt special measures applicable to banks, bank holding companies, and/or other financial institutions. These measures may include enhanced recordkeeping and reporting requirements for certain financial transactions that are of primary money laundering concern, due diligence requirements concerning the beneficial ownership of certain types of accounts, and restrictions or prohibitions on certain types of accounts with foreign financial institutions. Among its other provisions, IMLA requires each financial institution to: (i) establish an anti-money laundering program; (ii) establish due diligence policies, procedures and controls with respect to its private banking accounts and correspondent banking accounts involving foreign individuals and certain foreign banks; and (iii) avoid establishing, maintaining, administering, or managing correspondent accounts in the United States for, or on behalf of, a foreign bank that does not have a physical presence in any country. In addition, IMLA contains 19 a provision encouraging cooperation among financial institutions, regulatory authorities and law enforcement authorities with respect to individuals, entities and organizations engaged in, or reasonably suspected of engaging in, terrorist acts or money laundering activities. IMLA expands the circumstances under which funds in a bank account may be forfeited and requires covered financial institutions to respond under certain circumstances to requests for information from federal banking agencies within 120 hours. IMLA also amends the BHCA and the Bank Merger Act to require the federal banking agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing an application under these acts. IMLA became effective July 23, 2002. Merchant Banking Investments The FRB and the Secretary of the Treasury in January 2001, jointly adopted a final rule governing merchant banking investments made by financial holding companies. The rule implements provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act discussed below that permit financial holding companies to make investments as part of a bona fide securities underwriting or merchant or investment banking activity. The rule provides that a financial holding company may not, without FRB approval, directly or indirectly acquire any additional shares, assets or ownership interests or make any additional capital contribution to any company the shares, assets or ownership interests of which are held by the financial holding company subject to the rule if the aggregate carrying value of all merchant banking investments held by the financial holding company exceeds: · 30 percent of the Tier 1 capital of the financial holding company, or · after excluding interests in private equity funds, 20 percent of the Tier 1 capital of the financial holding company. A separate final rule will establish the capital charge of merchant banking investments for the financial holding company. Amendments to Regulation H and Y for Trust Preferred Securities. The Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule on March 1, 2005 that amends Regulation H and Regulation Y to limit restricted core capital elements (including trust preferred securities) which count as Tier 1 capital to 25 percent of all core capital elements, net of goodwill less any associated deferred tax liability. Internationally active bank holding companies, defined as those with consolidated assets greater than $250 billion or on-balance-sheet foreign exposure greater than $10 billion, will be subject to a 15 percent limit, but they may include qualifying mandatory convertible preferred securities up to the generally applicable 25 percent limit. Amounts of restricted core capital elements in excess of these limits generally may be included in Tier 2 capital. The final rule provides a five-year transition period, ending March 31, 2009, for application of the quantitative limits. On November 3, 2005 the Company and its newly formed Connecticut statutory trust subsidiary, The Bank Holdings Statutory Trust I (the “Trust”) entered into a purchase agreement pursuant to which it was agreed that the Trust would issue $15 million of floating interest rate trust preferred securities (the “Trust Preferred Securities”) to Merrill Lynch International. The Trust Preferred Securities were issued and sold in a private placement exempt from registration under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended. The Trust Preferred Securities will be redeemable at the Company’s option on or after December 15, 2010. In addition, the Trust Preferred Securities require quarterly distributions of interest by the Trust to the Holders of the Trust Preferred Securities at a floating rate equal to the three month London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1.42%, which rate thereafter will be reset until maturity. 20 The Trust used the proceeds of the sale of the Trust Preferred Securities to purchase $15 million of the Company’s floating rate junior subordinated debentures (the “Debentures”). Like the Trust Preferred Securities, the Debentures bear interest at a floating rate equal to the three month LIBOR plus 1.42%. The Debentures will mature on December 15, 2035, but may be redeemed by the Company at its option at any time on or after December 15, 2010. As a result of the purchase of and agreement with NNB Holdings, Inc. the Company acquired NNB Holdings Statutory Trust I which was formed in June 2005 to issue $5,155,000 of fixed/floating rate Cumulative Trust Preferred Securities, which are classified as junior subordinated debt. The fixed rate of 5.95% began on the date of issuance and will end on (but not including) the interest payment date in June 2010, at which time the interest rate switches to a floating interest rate equal to the three month LIBOR plus 1.85%. The acquired debentures will mature in 2035, but may be redeemed by the Company at its option at any time on or after June 15, 2010 with a payment of a premium as outlined in the indenture agreement. Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 In October 2006, the President signed the Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 into law (the “Relief Act”). The Relief Act amends several existing banking laws and regulations, eliminates some unnecessary and overly burdensome regulations of depository institutions and clarifies several existing regulations. The Relief Act, among other things, (i) authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to set reserve ratios; (ii) amends national banks regulations relating to shareholder voting and granting of dividends; (iii) amends several provisions relating to such issues as loans to insiders, regulatory applications, privacy notices, and golden parachute payments; and (iv) expands and clarifies the enforcement authority of federal banking regulators. While it is too soon to predict the impact this legislation will have on us, we do not expect that our business, expenses, or operations will be significantly impacted. FDIC Reform Act On February 8, 2006, the President signed The Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the Reform Act) into law. The Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Conforming Amendments Act of 2005, which the President signed into law on February 15, 2006, contains necessary technical and conforming changes to implement deposit insurance reform, as well as a number of study and survey requirements. The Reform Act provides for the following changes: · Merging the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) and the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF) into a new fund, the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). This change was made effective March 31, 2006. · Increasing the coverage limit for retirement accounts to $250,000 and indexing the coverage limit for retirement accounts to inflation as with the general deposit insurance coverage limit. This change was made effective April 1, 2006. · Establishing a range of 1.15 percent to 1.50 percent within which the FDIC Board of Directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (DRR). · Allowing the FDIC to manage the pace at which the reserve ratio varies within this range. 1. If the reserve ratio falls below 1.15 percent—or is expected to within 6 months—the FDIC must adopt a restoration plan that provides that the DIF will return to 1.15 percent generally within 5 years. 2. If the reserve ratio exceeds 1.35 percent, the FDIC must generally dividend to DIF members half of the amount above the amount necessary to maintain the DIF at 1.35 percent, unless the FDIC Board, considering statutory factors, suspends the dividends. 3. If the reserve ratio exceeds 1.5 percent, the FDIC must generally dividend to DIF members all amounts above the amount necessary to maintain the DIF at 1.5 percent. 21 · Eliminating the restrictions on premium rates based on the DRR and granting the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all insured institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio. · Granting a one-time initial assessment credit (of approximately $4.7 billion) to recognize institutions’ past contributions to the fund. The Federal Reserve Board in February 2006 approved a final rule that expands the definition of a small bank holding company under its Small Bank Holding Company Policy Statement and the Board’s risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for bank holding companies. The policy statement facilitates the transfer of ownership of small community banks by permitting debt levels at small bank holding companies that are higher than what would typically be permitted for larger small bank holding companies. In its revisions to the Policy Statement, the Federal Reserve Board has raised the small bank holding company asset size threshold from $150 million to $500 million and amended the related qualitative criteria for determining eligibility as a small bank holding company for the purposes of the policy statement and the capital guidelines. The FDIC finalized its interim final rule, with changes, that amended its deposit insurance regulations to implement applicable revisions to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act made by the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Conforming Amendments Act of 2005. The final rule provides for consideration of inflation adjustments to increase the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount of $100,000 on a five-year cycle beginning in 2010; increases the deposit insurance limit for certain retirement accounts from $100,000 to $250,000, also subject to inflation adjustments; and provides per-participant insurance coverage to employee benefit plan accounts, even if the depository institution at which the deposits are placed is not authorized to accept employee benefit plan deposits. The final rule is effective on October 12, 2006. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System amended Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and the official staff commentary to the regulation, which interprets the requirements of Regulation E to become effective on July 1, 2006. The final rule provides that Regulation E covers payroll card accounts that are established directly or indirectly through an employer, and to which transfers of the consumer’s salary, wages, or other employee compensation are made on a recurring basis. The final rule also provides financial institutions with an alternative to providing periodic statements for payroll card accounts if they make account information available to consumers by specified means. The federal financial regulatory agencies in September 2006 issued final guidance to address the risks posed by nontraditional residential mortgage products that allow borrowers to defer repayment of principal and sometimes interest, including “interest-only” mortgages and “payment option” adjustable-rate mortgages. These products allow borrowers to exchange lower payments during an initial period for higher payments later. The lack of principal amortization and the potential for negative amortization and features that compound risks (such as no document loans and simultaneous second mortgages) elevate the concern of the federal banking agencies for nontraditional mortgage products. The guidelines require depository institutions to ensure that loan terms and underwriting standards are consistent with prudent lending practices, including consideration of a borrower’s repayment capacity, to recognize that many nontraditional mortgage loans, particularly when they have risk-layering features, are untested in a stressed environment. The guidelines also express the need for depository institutions to have strong risk management standards, capital levels commensurate with the risk, an allowance for loan and lease losses that reflects the collectibility of the portfolio, and the need to make sure that consumers have sufficient information to clearly understand loan terms and associated risks prior to making a product or payment choice. The federal financial regulatory agencies in December 2006 issued a new interagency policy statement on the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) along with supplemental frequently asked questions. The policy statement revises and replaces a 1993 policy statement on the ALLL. The agencies issued the revised policy statement in view of today’s uncertain economic environment and the presence of concentrations in untested loan products in the loan portfolios of insured depository institutions. The policy statement has also been revised to conform with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and post-1993 supervisory guidance. 22 The 1993 policy statement described the responsibilities of the boards of directors, management, and banking examiners regarding the ALLL; factors to be considered in the estimation of the ALLL; and the objectives and elements of an effective loan review system, including a sound credit grading system. The policy statement reiterates that each institution has a responsibility for developing, maintaining and documenting a comprehensive, systematic, and consistently applied process appropriate to its size and the nature, scope, and risk of its lending activities for determining the amounts of the ALLL and the provision for loan and lease losses and states that each institution should ensure controls are in place to consistently determine the ALLL in accordance with GAAP, the institution’s stated policies and procedures, management’s best judgment and relevant supervisory guidance. The policy statement also restates that insured depository institutions must maintain an ALLL at a level that is appropriate to cover estimated credit losses on individually evaluated loans determined to be impaired as well as estimated credit losses inherent in the remainder of the loan and lease portfolio, and that estimates of credit losses should reflect consideration of all significant factors that affect the collectibility of the portfolio as of the evaluation date. The policy statement states that prudent, conservative, but not excessive, loan loss allowances that represent management’s best estimate from within an acceptable range of estimated losses are appropriate. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in December 2006 issued final guidance on sound risk management practices for concentrations in commercial real estate lending. The agencies observed that the commercial real estate is an area in which some banks are becoming increasingly concentrated, especially with small- to medium- sized banks that face strong competition in their other business lines. The agencies support banks serving a vital role in their communities by supplying credit for business and real estate development. However, the agencies are concerned that rising commercial real estate loan concentrations may expose institutions to unanticipated earnings and capital volatility in the event of adverse changes in commercial real estate markets. The guidance provides supervisory criteria, including numerical indicators to assist in identifying institutions with potentially significant commercial real estate loan concentrations that may warrant greater supervisory scrutiny, but such criteria are not limits on commercial real estate lending. Other Pending and Proposed Legislation Other legislative and regulatory initiatives which could affect the Company, the Bank, our qualified intermediary companies and the banking industry in general are pending, and additional initiatives may be proposed or introduced before the United States Congress, the Nevada legislature, the California, Hawaii and Montana legislatures and other governmental bodies in the future. Such proposals, if enacted, may further alter the structure, regulation, and competitive relationship among financial institutions, and may subject the Company to increased regulation, disclosure, and reporting requirements. In addition, the various banking regulatory agencies often adopt new rules and regulations to implement and enforce existing legislation. It cannot be predicted whether, or in what form, any such legislation or regulations may be enacted or the extent to which the business of the Company or the Bank would be affected thereby. Other Information Concerning the Company The Company holds no material patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises or concessions. No expenditures were made by the Company since inception on material research activities relating to the development of services or the improvement of existing services. Based upon present business activities, compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into the environment will have no material effects upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the company. We are subject to certain of the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, referred to as the Exchange Act. In accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual and quarterly reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Copies may be obtained at the prescribed rates from the public reference room maintained by the SEC at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 and be inspected without charge and copied at the prescribed rates at the SEC’s regional office at Northwestern Atrium Center, 500 West Madison Street, Suite 1400, Chicago, Illinois 60661. 23 The public may also obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. An electronic version of our filings may be viewed at the SEC’s website: www.sec.gov, CIK #1234383. Additionally, this site also provides access to any other report or other information we file with the SEC. Accounting for Goodwill Goodwill arises from business acquisitions and represents the value attributable to the unidentifiable intangible elements in our acquired businesses. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is subsequently evaluated at least annually for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142. The Company performs this annual test generally as of October 1 of each year. Evaluations are also performed on a more frequent basis if events or circumstances indicate an impairment could have taken place. Such events could include, among others, a significant adverse change in the business climate, an adverse action by a regulator, an unanticipated change in the competitive environment and a decision to change the operations or dispose of a reporting unit. The first step in this evaluation process is to determine if a potential impairment exists in any of the Company’s reporting units and, if required from the results of this step, a second step measures the amount of any impairment loss. The computations required by steps 1 and 2 call for us to make a number of estimates and assumptions. In completing step 1, we determine the fair value of the reporting unit that is being evaluated. In determining the fair value, we generally calculate value using a combination of up to three separate methods: comparable publicly traded financial service companies in the Western states; comparable acquisitions of financial services companies in the Western states; and, the discounted present value of management’s estimates of future cash or income flows. Critical assumptions that are used as part of these calculations include: · selection of comparable publicly traded companies, based on location, size and business composition; · selection of comparable acquisition transactions, based on location, size, business composition and date of transaction; · the discount rate applied to future earnings, based on an estimate of the cost of capital; · the potential future earnings of the reporting unit; · the relative weight given to the valuations derived by the three methods described. If step 1 indicates a potential impairment of a reporting unit, step 2 requires us to estimate the “implied fair value” of the reporting unit. This process estimates the fair value of the unit’s individual assets and liabilities in the same manner as if a purchase of the reporting unit were taking place. To do this we must determine the fair value of the assts, liabilities and identifiable intangible assets of the reporting unit based upon the best available information. If the value of goodwill calculated in step 2 is less than the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit, an impairment is indicated and the carrying value of goodwill is written down to the calculated value. Since estimates are an integral part of the impairment computations, changes in these estimates could have a significant impact on any calculated impairment amount. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include, among other, competitive forces, customer behaviors and attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures and technology, changes in discount rate, changes in stock and mergers and acquisitions market values and changes in industry or market sector conditions. During the first quarter of 2007, we performed our annual goodwill impairment evaluation for the entire organization effective December 31, 2006. Step 1 was performed by using both market value and transaction value approaches for all reporting units and, in certain cases; the discounted cash flow approach was also used. In the market value approach, we identified a group of publicly traded banks that are similar in size and 24 location to our subsidiary bank and then used valuation multiples developed from the group to apply to our subsidiary companies. In the transaction value approach, we reviewed the purchase price paid in recent mergers and acquisitions of banks similar in size to our subsidiary companies. From these purchase prices we developed a set of valuation multiples, which we applied to our subsidiary companies. In instances where the discounted cash flow approach was used, we discounted projected cash flows to their present value to arrive at our estimate of fair value. Upon completion of step 1 of the evaluation process, we concluded that no potential impairment existed for any of the Company’s reporting units. In reaching this conclusion, we determined that the fair values of goodwill exceeded the recorded values of goodwill. Since this evaluation process required us to make estimates and assumptions with regard to the fair value of the Company’s reporting unites, actual values may differ significantly from these estimates. Such differences could result in future impairment of goodwill that would, in turn, negatively impact the Company’s results of operations and the business segments where the goodwill is recorded. However, had our estimated fair values been 10% lower, there would still have been no indication of impairment for any of our reporting units. In November 2006 the Company completed its merger with NNB Holdings, Inc. which results in an increase in goodwill of approximately $23 million. The goodwill will be evaluated for impairment as part of the Company’s 2007 annual goodwill impairment evaluation. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements and information and is subject to the “safe harbor” provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements (which involve The Bank Holdings’ (the “Company’s”) plans, beliefs and goals, refer to estimates or use similar terms) involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. In addition, our business exposes us to certain risks. The factors contained below, among others, could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. · changes in the extensive laws, regulations and policies governing financial institution holding companies and their subsidiaries could alter our business environment or affect our operations; · general economic or industry conditions could be less favorable than expected, resulting in a deterioration in credit quality, a change in the allowance for loan losses or a reduced demand for credit or fee—based products and services; · concentrations of real estate loans could subject us to increased risk in the event of a real estate recession or natural disaster; · changes in the domestic interest rate environment could reduce net interest income and could increase credit losses; · the conditions of the securities markets could change, which could adversely affect, among other things, the value or credit quality or our assets, the availability and terms of funding necessary to meet our liquidity needs and our ability to originate loans and leases; · competitive pressures could intensify and affect our profitability, including as a result of continued industry consolidation, the increased availability of financial services from non—banks, technological developments such as the internet, or bank regulatory reform; · loss of key personnel, social or demographic displacements; 25 · the potential need to adapt to industry changes in information technology systems, on which we are highly dependent, could present operational issues or require significant capital spending; · operational risks and interruptions including data processing systems failure or fraud; · our investments in our businesses and in related technology could require additional incremental spending, and might not produce expected deposit and loan growth and anticipated contributions to our earnings; · acquisitions may result in large one—time charges to income, may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels or within time frames originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration difficulties; · we may have difficulty managing our growth, which depends on monitoring and managing expanded operations, staffing, and customer relations; · we operate in a competitive environment dominated by larger financial service providers who have lower cost structures and offer a wider panoply of services; · acts or threats of terrorism or actions taken by the United States or other governments as a result of such acts or threats, including possible military action, could further adversely affect business and economic conditions in the United States generally and in our principal markets, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and that of our borrowers and on the financial markets and the price of our common stock; You should not place undue reliance on any forward—looking statements. Forward—looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events except to the extent required by federal securities laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no comments received from Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports that are unresolved. ITEM 