ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements and information and is subject to the “safe harbor” provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements (which involve The Bank Holdings’ (the “Company’s”) plans, beliefs and goals, refer to estimates or use similar terms) involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. In addition, our business exposes us to certain risks. The factors contained below, among others, could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. 26 Our Northern Nevada and Northern California business focus and economic conditions in Nevada and California could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are located primarily in northern Nevada and northern California. As a result of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. A deterioration in economic conditions or a natural or manmade disaster in our market area could have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio, the demand for our products and services, and our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. Our earnings depend largely on the relationship between the cost of funds, primarily deposits and borrowings, and the yield on earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. This relationship, known as the interest rate spread, is subject to fluctuation and is affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, the international interest rate environment, as well as by economic, regulatory and competitive factors which influence interest rates, the volume and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the level of nonperforming assets. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect the demand of customers for our products and services. We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets. Given our current volume and mix of interest-bearing liabilities and interest-earning assets, our interest rate spread could be expected to increase during times of rising interest rates and, conversely, to decline during times of falling interest rates. Therefore, significant fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse or a positive effect on our results of operations. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely impact our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws or changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for us and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to manage growth may adversely affect our performance. Our financial performance and profitability depends on our ability to manage our recent growth and possible future growth. In addition, any future acquisitions and our continued growth may present operating and other problems that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits and in making loans. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Our results in the future may differ depending on the nature or level of competition. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we will sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and guarantees. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, that management believes are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance, and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 27 We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could hurt our business and prospects. Our real estate-secured loans are concentrated in the northern Nevada and greater Sacramento, California areas. A downturn in those local economies could have a material adverse effect on a borrower’s ability to repay these loans due to either loss of borrower’s employment or a reduction in borrower’s business. Further, such reduction in those local economies could severely impair the value of the real property held as collateral. As a result, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and it would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Our growth could be hindered unless we are able to recruit additional, qualified employees which, if difficult, may divert resources and limit its ability to successfully expand operations. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees in the near term, we may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy and/or be unable to successfully manage our growth. We believe that we have built our management team and personnel, and established an infrastructure, to support our current size. Our future success will depend on the ability of our executives and employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls and processes, reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to its management information and control systems and control procedures and processes in an efficient or timely manner. We cannot assure you that our growth strategy will not place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to locate additional personnel and to manage future expansion in our operations, we may experience compliance and operational issues, have to slow the pace of growth, or have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth, any one of which could adversely affect our business. Our business would be harmed if we lost the services of any of our executive management team. We believe that our prospects for success in the future are substantially dependent on our senior management team, which includes Chief Executive Officer, Hal Giomi, President, Joe Bourdeau, Chief Financial Officer, Jack Buchold, and Chief Credit Officer, John Donovan. The loss of the services of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on our business. As a public reporting company, Bank Holdings is subject to significant laws and regulations that will increase its compliance costs and may strain management resources. We are a public company and, reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, and related regulations are applicable to our operations. Our expenses related to services rendered by accountants, legal counsel and consultants will increase in order to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations that it is subject to as a public company. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse affect on our business. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our business. Our allowance for loan losses is based on prior experience and peer bank experience, as well as an evaluation of the known risks in the current portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio and economic factors. The determination of the appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could adversely affect business and prospects. 28 We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we takes title. A large portion of our outstanding loan portfolio is secured by real estate. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial, adversely affecting our business, profitability and prospects. You should not place undue reliance on any forward–looking statements. Forward–looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update them in light of new information or future events except to the extent required by federal securities laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no comments received from Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports that are unresolved. 