ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements and information and is subject to the “safe harbor” provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements, which involve The Bank Holdings’ (the “Company’s”) plans, beliefs and goals, refer to estimates or use similar terms and involve certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. In addition, our business exposes us to certain risks. The factors contained below, among others, could cause our financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to the Company’s Business There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and further states that our recurring losses from operations, deteriorating capital position, and the Bank’s stipulation and consent to the issuance of an order to cease and desist with the FDIC and NFID raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans concerning these matters are discussed in Note 1 — Going Concern and Regulatory Actions. As we reported in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 29, 2009, our Bank entered into a stipulation and consent to the Issuance of an Order to Cease and Desist with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and the Nevada Financial Institutions Division (“NFID”). (Hereinafter “Order”). The Order is a formal corrective action pursuant to which our Bank has agreed to address specific areas through the adoption and implementation of certain procedures and policies designed to enhance the safety and soundness of our Bank. These actions include, among other things, an enhanced methodology for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses, an updated plan for reducing brokered deposits and commercial real estate loans, and the development of a capital plan to increase and subsequently maintain specified capital levels by certain dates. The Order specifies that we will prepare and submit progress reports to the FDIC and NFID regarding our compliance with the Order. The Order will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the FDIC and NFID. On March 11, 2010, the Bank received notification from FDIC under the Prompt Corrective Actions regulations that “the Bank’s attempts to raise capital or sell the institution have been unsuccessful to date and the likelihood of future success is uncertain”. The “Directive” requires the Bank to take certain actions including recapitalization within 30 days, and other items already reflected in the “Order”. Further, as we reported in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 23, 2009, the Company entered into a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Under the terms of the Written Agreement, The Bank Holdings has agreed to take certain actions that are designed to maintain its financial soundness so that it may continue to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary, Nevada Security Bank. Among other things, the Written Agreement requires prior written approval related to the payment or taking of dividends and distributions, incurrence of debt, and the purchase of redemption of stock. In addition, the Written Agreement requires The Bank Holdings to adopt, submit and implement an acceptable capital plan and maintain regular reporting to the Federal Reserve during the term of the agreement. The Bank Holdings must also provide notice of capital changes and comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding the addition of executive officers or directors and the payment of indemnification and severance. 23 Table of Contents The Bank is subject to certain operating restrictions under the Orders. The Bank agreed to certain covenants and conditions in the Order that restrict the operations of the Bank, including retaining qualified management, improving asset quality by reducing classified assets by collection or charge off, reducing the aggregate amount of credit outstanding for borrowers of commercial real estate loans, increasing the Bank’s leverage ratio to equal or exceed 9% and the Bank’s Tier 1 risk based capital ratio to equal or exceed 12%, not pay cash dividends without the prior written consent of the FDIC and NFID. Management of the Bank is working toward complying with such operating restrictions. However, there are no assurances that the actions by management of the Bank to comply with such restrictions will be fully compliant. Noncompliance with the Order at Year End 2009 and Risk of Future Noncompliance. In that the Bank was in the “significantly undercapitalized” category under the prompt corrective action provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and the prompt corrective action regulations of the FDIC promulgated thereunder (collectively referred to as the “PCA Provisions”) as of December 31, 2009, the Bank was required to file a capital restoration plan and did so. Being “significantly undercapitalized,” the Bank is automatically subject to among other things, restrictions on dividends, management fees, and asset growth, and prohibited from opening new branches, making acquisitions or engaging in new lines of business without the approval of the FDIC. In that the Bank is not in compliance with the Order, it could be subject to enforcement actions by the FDIC and NFID. The various enforcement measures available to the FDIC and NFID, include the imposition of a conservator or receiver (which would likely result in a substantial diminution or a total loss of the Company’s investment in the Bank), the judicial enforcement of the Order, the termination of insurance of deposits, the imposition of civil money penalties, and the issuance of removal and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties and the imposition of restrictions and sanctions under the PCA Provisions. Stroke of the Pen Risk. Financial risk management tends to be based on credit, market, operational, regulatory and reputational risk. Additionally, there are changes in policy, regulation and accounting that address issues outside the financial services industry that result in systemic risks to banking organizations. Such changes recently arose in the political process which made them difficult to anticipate and which carried profound and negative consequences for our Company and Bank. Such consequences, we believe, were not adequately evaluated primarily in terms of their effects on the insured financial institutions usually referred to as “community banks”. Recent changes in monetary policy, tax policy, and accounting standards have posed such a risk, however, the early September “conservatorship” of FNMA (Fannie Mae) and FHLMC (Freddie Mac) brought about “unintended consequences” that severely depleted the capital of the Company. Although the September 7, 2008 joint release by the FRB, FDIC, OCC and OTS opined that “a limited number of small institutions have holdings that are significant compared to their capital”, and that these agencies “are prepared to work with these institutions to develop capital restoration plans”, there has been a noticeable lack of regulatory support. Such precipitous action as has been executed by the U.S. Treasury Department has magnified the previous risks borne by the Bank and Company due to other factors, primarily credit or market risk. It has depleted capital, reduced the financial strength and flexibility of the Company, and as a result poses grave concerns to our customers and shareholders about the Bank and Company’s continued viability. The Company’s Business May Be More Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to declining property values, the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Since mid-2007 and through today, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of sub-prime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to 24 Table of Contents cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of financial institutions worldwide. In 2008 and 2009, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $205 billion in the equity of other banking and financial organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The Company’s financial performance generally and in particular, the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where we operate and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, continued business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or reduced levels of investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall during 2008, 2009, and to date 2010 the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the communities of northern Nevada, northern California, and the United States. It is expected that the difficult business environment in these areas may continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that any of these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions have adversely affected the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition during the past two years and are likely to continue doing so during 2010. We Have A High Concentration Of Loans Secured By Real Estate And The Continued Downturn In The Real Estate Market, Could Further Hurt Our Business And Prospects. Our real estate-secured loans are concentrated in the northern Nevada and the greater Sacramento, California SMSA. A downturn in those local economies has had a material adverse effect on some of our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans due to either loss of borrower’s employment or a reduction in borrower’s business. Further, such reduction in those local economies has severely impaired the value of the real property held as collateral. As a result, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans as well as the value of our OREO property has been reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be further diminished and the Bank would be more likely to suffer additional losses on defaulted loans. If A Significant Number Of Borrowers, Guarantors And Related Parties Fail To Perform As Required By The Terms Of Their Loans, We Will Sustain Continued Losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and guarantees. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, that management believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance, and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent continued unexpected losses that could have a further material adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company’s Allowance For Loan Losses May Be Insufficient. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management’s best estimate of probable losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management’s continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Company to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Further, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for possible loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may without additional capital, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. 25 Table of Contents The Company Is Subject To Interest Rate Risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Company’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s Profitability Depends Significantly On Economic Conditions In Northern Nevada And Northern California. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of northern Nevada, northern California and the specific local markets in which the Company operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the northern Nevada and northern California regions. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services as well as the ability of the Company’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company’s deposit funding sources. Economic conditions in northern Nevada and northern California are declining and are expected to continue to decline. A significant continued decline in general economic conditions, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changes in securities markets, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Potential Loss of Certain Tax Attributes. The amount of net operating loss and certain tax credit carryforwards that a corporation may utilize to offset future taxable income or income tax payable in any taxable year may be limited under Section 382 (“Section 382”) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) if an “ownership change” occurs with respect to such corporation. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $38 million for federal tax purposes. The Company reasonably expects that any stock offering, if successful, may have a material adverse affect on the Company’s ability to fully utilize its net operating loss carryforward due to the tax law limitations on using a tax loss carryforward in the event of a change of control. The Company Is Subject To Continuing Lending Risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across United States. Increases in interest rates and/or continuing weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Company is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Company to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Company. As of December 31, 2009, most of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate mortgage loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and industrial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of more of these loans could continue to cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Loan Portfolio” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion related to the loan portfolio. Interest rate volatility and credit adjusted rate spreads may impact our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. We disclose estimated fair values and related carrying amounts of the Company’s financial instruments on a regular basis. These estimates are based on year end discounted cash flow analysis with interest rates for investments, loans, deposits and borrowings being those currently being offered for items with similar forms to maturity and similar audit quality. As credit spreads widen or collapse, or like instruments are not offered at all in a current economic environment, the fair values we report could be adversely affected without any changes in underlying carrying values or interest rates on our portfolios of assets and liabilities held. 26 Table of Contents A rapid change in interest rates could make it difficult to maintain a given interest income spread and could result in reduced earnings. A substantial portion of our earnings are derived from net interest income, which is interest income and fees earned on investments and loans, less interest paid on deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the control of management, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental agencies. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. With fixed rate assets such as most investments and fixed rate loans as well as deposit liabilities such as certificates of deposit and other fixed rate borrowings, the affect on net interest income depends on the cash flows associated with the maturities of such instruments. These maturities can be disrupted by obligor, borrower, or depositor actions which are outside our control. Further, governmental action to thwart inflation or moderate monetary growth could bring about rapid and unanticipated changes in market interest rates. As a result, asset/liability management programs may not adequately project a true net interest income level, which could result in reduced earnings. The Company Is Subject To Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Company’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Company has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The effects of changes to FDIC insurance coverage limits are uncertain and increased premiums adversely affect us. EESA included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000. In addition, the FDIC recently adopted a final rule revising its risk-based assessment system, effective April 1, 2009. The changes to the assessment system involve adjustments to the risk-based calculation of an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits. Further potential increases in FDIC insurance premiums will add to our cost of operations and could have a significant impact on us. On December 31, 2009 the Bank paid an FDIC insurance assessment of $576,000. The FDIC recently adopted a rule requiring all insured depository institutions including the Bank to prepay three years of FDIC assessments in the fourth quarter of 2009, except in the event such prepayment is waived by the FDIC. The amount of this prepaid assessment was $ 8 million which the Bank received a waiver from the FDIC to prepay. While the prepaid assessments are not charged to income for 2009 but rather ratably over three years beginning in 2010, the quarterly amount paid has reduced the cash and liquidity of the Bank at year end 2009 and will for subsequent periods. Due to the significant losses at failed banks and expected losses for banks that will fail, it is likely that FDIC insurance fund assessments on the Bank will increase, and such assessments will materially adversely affect the profitability of the Bank. The Company May Be Adversely Affected By The Soundness Of Other Financial Institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For example, the Bank previously purchased loan participations from a southern Nevada bank that was taken over by the FDIC whose management has declined further advances on certain projects, forcing the borrower to default on their outstanding obligations; this has placed our loan participation into a non-accrual status, where ultimate collection of the full balance owing is questionable. The Company Operates In A Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include “mega-banks” “too big to fail” banks, investment banks, national, regional, and community banks within the various markets where the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance 27 Table of Contents companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Company can. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · The ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. · The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands, within the scope of company profitability. · The rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. · Customer satisfaction with the Company’s level of service. · The ability to expand the Company’s market position · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to have an adverse affect on our industry. The capital and credit markets have been experiences unprecedented volatility and disruption for over two years. Dramatic declines in the housing market over this period, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. The Company Is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision. The Company is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not security holders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, and dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. It is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in the near future in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Company may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1. Business and Note 17 - Regulatory Capital Requirements in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which is located elsewhere in this report. 28 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards may impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) changes the financial account and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. The Company’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. New Lines of Business or New Products and Services May Subject The Company to Additional Risks. From time to time, the Company may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/ or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Bank Holdings May Require Dividends From Nevada Security Bank, Which is Currently Subject to Dividend restrictions. The Bank Holdings is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It may require dividends in the future from Nevada Security Bank to pay the interest and principal on The Bank Holdings’ Trust Preferred Securities in addition to other expenses. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations have limited the amount of dividends that Nevada Security Bank may pay to The Bank Holdings. Also, The Bank Holdings’ right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. Since Nevada Security Bank is unable to pay dividends to The Bank Holdings, The Bank Holdings may not be able to service its debt or pay its obligations. The inability to receive dividends from Nevada Security Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1. Business and Note 17- Regulatory Capital Requirements in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which are located elsewhere in this report. Potential Mergers May Disrupt the Company’s Business and Dilute Stockholder Value. The Company may seek merger partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Merging with other banks or businesses involves various risks commonly associated with mergers, including, among other things: · Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the merger company. · Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the merger company. · Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the merger company. · Potential disruption to the Company’s business. · Potential diversion of the Company’s management’s time and attention. · The possible loss of key employees and customers of the merger company. The Company occasionally evaluates merger opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Such activities may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from a merger could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. During 2006, the Company acquired NNB Holdings, Inc., Rocky Mountain Exchange and 75% of Granite Exchange, Inc. During 2007, and 2008, the Company acquired the remaining 25% of Granite Exchange, Inc. During 2008 and 2009, Rocky Mountain 1031 Exchange was closed and Granite Exchange was sold after not having met projected benefits anticipated from their acquisition. 29 Table of Contents The Company May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled People. The Company’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and the Company may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel of the Company could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business because of their skills, knowledge of the Company’s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company’s Information Systems May Experience An Interruption Or Breach In Security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company Continually Encounters Technological Change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services, some of which are provided by outside vendors on whom the Company extensively relies. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company May Be Subjected To Claims and Litigation Pertaining To Fiduciary Responsibility. From time to time, customers may make claims and take legal action pertaining to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the Company’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the Company they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of the Company and its products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact The Company’s Business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With The Company’s Common Stock The Company’s Stock Price Can Be Volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors some of which are beyond our control and include, among other things: · Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. · Changes in government regulations. · News reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. · Recommendations by securities analysts. · Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company. · Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors. 30 Table of Contents · The public perception of the community banking industry and its safety and soundness. · New technology used, or services offered, by competitors. · Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors. · Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. · Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annually results of operations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The Trading Volume In The Company’s Common Stock Is Less Than That Of Other Larger Financial Services Companies. Although the Company’s common stock is listed for trading on the Over-The-Counter Market, the trading volume in its common stock is generally less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the Company’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. Further, on September 18, 2009, The Bank Holdings, the holding company for Nevada Security Bank, gave formal written notice to the NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) of the Company’s intention to voluntarily delist its common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The Board of Directors of The Bank Holdings voted to take this action on September 10, 2009. At this time, the board was aware that its minimum bid price had remained below the limits of the Nasdaq for a period of time greater than that allowed under the Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). On September 15, 2009, the Company received notice from Nasdaq of this fact and that its shares would be delisted by Nasdaq if it did not regain compliance within a 180 day grace period. As the Company had already determined it to be in its best interest to voluntarily delist prior to receiving the letter, it proceeded to notify Nasdaq of its decision on September 18, 2009, and it will not seek to regain compliance with the Nasdaq Listing Rule. An Investment In The Company’s Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company (FDIC), any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The common stock is equity and is subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively subordinated to all the indebtedness. Shares of the common stock are equity interests in us and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, shares of the common stock will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and to other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in our liquidation. Additionally, holders of our common stock are subjected to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our outstanding preferred stock, if any. Our board of directors is authorized to issue classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the holders of our common stock and we are permitted to incur additional debt. Upon liquidation, lenders and holders of our debt securities and preferred stock, if any, would receive distributions of our available assets prior to holders of our common stock. We may raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our Shares and common stock and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of preferred or common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We frequently evaluate opportunities to access the capital markets taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition and other relevant considerations, and subject to market conditions, we may take further capital actions in addition to issuance of the shares offered. Such actions could include, among other things, the issuance of additional shares of common stock in public or private transactions in order to further increase our capital levels above the requirements for a well-capitalized institution established by the Federal bank regulatory agencies as well as other regulatory targets. The issuance of any additional shares of preferred or common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities including, without limitation, securities issued upon exercise of stock options (which may be granted in the future), could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock, including purchasers of common stock in this offering. Holders of our shares of stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our stock made after this offering or the perception that such sales could occur. 31 Table of Contents The Company’s Articles Of Incorporation and By-Laws As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have An Anti-Takeover Effect. Provisions of the Company’s articles of incorporation and by-laws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to the Company’s shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. Risks Associated With The Company’s Industry The Earnings Of Financial Services Companies Are Significantly Affected By General Business And Economic Conditions. The Company’s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, all of which are beyond the Company’s control. The continuing deterioration in economic conditions in the United States and abroad could result in a further increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Company’s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Financial Services Companies Depend On The Accuracy And Completeness Of Information About Customers And Counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Consumers May Decide Not To Use Banks To Complete Their Financial Transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that while historically have involved banks, are now available through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as “disintermediation,” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no comments received from Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports that are unresolved. 