Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not based on historical fact are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, projections, intentions, goals, strategies, plans, prospects and the beliefs and assumptions of our management including, without limitation, our expectations regarding results of operations, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, current and future development and manufacturing efforts, regulatory filings, clinical trial results and the sufficiency of our cash for future operations. Forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "could increase the likelihood," "hope," "target," "project," "goals," "potential," "predict," "might," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "is planned," "may," "should," "will," "will enable," "would be expected," "look forward," "may provide," "would" or similar terms, variations of such terms or the negative of those terms. We cannot assure investors that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. Risks Relating to our Business We have a limited operating history and have incurred a cumulative loss since inception. If we do not generate significant revenues, we will not be profitable. We have incurred significant losses since our inception in May 2001. At December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $257.0 million. We have not generated revenues from the sale of any products to date. We expect that our annual operating losses will increase over the next several years as we expand our drug commercialization, development and discovery efforts. To become profitable, we must successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our existing drug candidates, and effectively manufacture, market and sell any drugs we successfully develop. Accordingly, we may never generate significant revenues and, even if we do generate significant revenues, we may never achieve profitability. To become and remain profitable, we must succeed in developing and commercializing drugs with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities: developing drugs; obtaining regulatory approval for them through either existing or new regulatory approval pathways; clearing allegedly infringing patent rights; and manufacturing, distributing, marketing and selling them. We may never succeed in these activities and may never generate revenues that are significant or large enough to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. If we fail to obtain approval for and commercialize our most advanced product candidate, M-Enoxaparin, we may have to curtail our product development programs and our business would be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our time, financial resources and collaboration efforts in the development of our most advanced product candidate, M-Enoxaparin, a technology-enabled generic 25 Table of Contents version of Lovenox. Our near-term ability to generate revenues and our future success, in large part, depend on the successful development and commercialization of M-Enoxaparin. In accordance with our 2003 Sandoz Collaboration, Sandoz has submitted ANDAs to the FDA seeking approval to market M-Enoxaparin in the United States. In November 2007, Sandoz received a letter from the FDA stating that the syringe ANDA for M-Enoxaparin was not approvable because the ANDA did not adequately address the potential for immunogenicity of the drug product. In September 2008, Sandoz submitted an amendment to the M-Enoxaparin ANDA. If any of the following occurs, we may never realize revenue from this product, we may have to curtail our other product development programs and, as a result, our business would be materially harmed: •if the response filed in September 2008 fails to answer the FDA's questions related to the potential for immunogenicity of the drug product; •if we fail to answer any subsequent questions from the FDA to its satisfaction as it proceeds with its review of the M-Enoxaparin ANDA; •if we are unable to satisfactorily demonstrate therapeutic equivalence of M-Enoxaparin to Lovenox; •if the FDA disagrees with our characterization approach or does not agree that M-Enoxaparin is equivalent to Lovenox; •if we otherwise fail to meet FDA requirements for the ANDA (including, but not limited to, manufacturing and bioequivalence requirements); or •if we fail to obtain FDA approval for, and successfully commercialize, M-Enoxaparin. If other generic versions of Lovenox are approved and successfully commercialized, our business would suffer. In March 2003, Amphastar and Teva each submitted ANDAs for generic versions of Lovenox with the FDA. In 2007, Hospira, Inc. filed ANDAs for generic versions of Lovenox with the FDA. In addition, other third parties, including, without limitation, Sanofi-Aventis, may seek approval to market generic versions of Lovenox in the United States. If a competitor obtains FDA approval or if Sanofi-Aventis decides to market its drug as a generic or license it to another company to be sold as a generic, both known as authorized generics, the financial returns to us from the marketing of M-Enoxaparin would be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, we may not gain any competitive advantage and the resulting market price for our M-Enoxaparin product may be lower, our commercial launch may be delayed or we may not be able to launch our product at all. Also, we may never achieve significant market share for M-Enoxaparin if one or more third parties markets generic versions of Lovenox. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, any developer of a generic drug that is first to have its ANDA accepted for review by the FDA, and whose submission includes a paragraph IV certification, is eligible to receive a 180-day period of generic market exclusivity. Sandoz was not the first applicant to file an enoxaparin ANDA with a paragraph IV certification, so Sandoz will be forced to wait until the expiration of Teva and/or Amphastar's exclusivity period, which will be April 1, 2009, before being able to receive FDA final approval of its application. As a result, Teva and/or Amphastar may have the opportunity to establish long term supply agreements with institutional customers before we can enter the market, which would hinder our ability to penetrate the market for generic enoxaparin products. The 2003 Sandoz Collaboration contains terms which specify the sharing of commercial returns of M-Enoxaparin between us and Sandoz. Under circumstances when one or more third parties successfully commercialize a generic version of Lovenox, significantly less favorable economic terms for us would be triggered. Consequently, if other generic versions of Lovenox are approved and commercialized, our revenues from M-Enoxaparin would be reduced and, as a result, our business, 26 Table of Contents including our near-term financial results and our ability to fund future discovery and development programs, would suffer. Our patent litigation with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., the innovator of Copaxone, may cause delays and additional expense in the commercialization of M356. If we are not successful in commercializing M356 or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. In July 2008, the FDA accepted for review the ANDA containing a paragraph IV certification for generic Copaxone submitted by Sandoz. Subsequently, in August 2008, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and related entities sued Sandoz, Novartis AG and us for patent infringement. This litigation could significantly delay, impair or prevent our ability to commercialize M356, our second major generic product candidate. Litigation involves many risks and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that Novartis AG, Sandoz or we will prevail in any lawsuit with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries. In addition, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries has significant resources and any litigation with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries could last a number of years, potentially delaying or prohibiting the commercialization of M356. If we are not successful in commercializing M356 or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. If other generic versions of our product candidates are approved and successfully commercialized, our business would suffer. We expect that certain of our product candidates may face intense and increasing competition from other manufacturers of generic and/or branded products. As patents for branded products and related exclusivity periods expire, manufacturers of generic products may receive regulatory approval for generic equivalents and may be able to achieve significant market penetration. As this happens, or as branded manufacturers launch authorized generic versions of such products, market share, revenues and gross profit typically decline, in some cases, dramatically. If any of our generic product offerings, including M-Enoxaparin or M356, enter markets with a number of competitors, we may not achieve significant market share, revenues or gross profit. In addition, as other generic products are introduced to the markets in which we participate, the market share, revenues and gross profit of our generic products could decline. We utilize new technologies in the development of some of our products that have not been reviewed or accepted by regulatory authorities. The approvals of some of our products in current or future development, including M-Enoxaparin and M356, are based upon new technologies that may have not previously been accepted by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. The FDA's review and acceptance of our technologies may take time and resources, require independent third-party analysis or may not be accepted by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. For some of our products, the regulatory approval path and requirements may not be clear, which could add significant delay and expense. Delays or failure to obtain regulatory approval of any of the products that we develop would adversely affect our business. If the raw materials, including unfractionated heparin, or UFH, used in our products become difficult to obtain, significantly increase in cost or become unavailable, we may be unable to produce our products and this would have a material adverse impact on our business. We and our collaborative partners and vendors obtain certain raw materials, including UFH, from suppliers who in turn source the materials from other countries, including China. In 2008, due to the occurrence of adverse events associated with the use of UFH, there were global recalls of UFH products, including in the United States. Based on investigation by the FDA into those adverse events, the FDA identified a heparin-like contaminant in the implicated UFH products and recommneded that manufacturers and suppliers of UFH use additional tests to screen their UFH active pharmaceutical 27 Table of Contents ingredient. The FDA has also placed restrictions on the import of some raw materials from China, and may in the future place additional restrictions and testing requirements on the use of raw materials, including UFH, in products intended for sale in the United States. As a result, the raw materials, including UFH, used in our products may become difficult to obtain, significantly increase in cost, or become unavailable to us. If any of these events occur, we may be unable to produce our products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements for the commercial launch of the product or to meet future demand, which would have a material adverse impact on our business. If we or our collaborative partners and other third parties are unable to satisfy FDA quality standards, experience manufacturing difficulties or are unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates, including M-Enoxaparin and M118, our development and commercialization efforts may be materially harmed. We have limited personnel with experience in, and we do not own facilities for, manufacturing any products. We depend upon our collaborative partners and other third parties to provide raw materials meeting FDA quality standards, manufacture the drug substance, produce the final drug product and provide certain analytical services with respect to our product candidates, including M-Enoxaparin. We, our collaborative partners or our third-party contractors may have difficulty meeting FDA manufacturing requirements, including, but not limited to, reproducibility, validation and scale-up, and continued compliance with current good manufacturing practices requirements. In addition, events such as the contamination of UFH may have an adverse impact on the supply of starting or raw materials for some of our product candidates, and we, our collaborative partners or our third-party contractors may have difficulty producing products in the quantities necessary to meet FDA requirements or meet anticipated market demand. If we, our collaborative partners or our third-party manufacturers or suppliers are unable to satisfy the FDA pre-approval manufacturing requirements for our product candidates, or are unable to produce our products in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements for the launch of the product or to meet future demand, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. We will require substantial additional funds to execute our business plan and, if additional capital is not available, we may need to limit, scale back or cease our operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $108.5 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a net loss of $62.6 million and used cash in operating activities of $48.2 million. We will continue to require substantial funds to conduct research and development, process development, manufacturing, preclinical testing and clinical trials of our drug candidates, as well as funds necessary to manufacture and market any products that are approved for commercial sale. Because successful development of our drug candidates is uncertain, we are unable to estimate the actual funds we will require to complete research and development and commercialize our products under development. Our future capital requirements may vary depending on the following: •the advancement of our generic product candidates and other development programs, including the timing of regulatory approvals; •the timing of FDA approval of the products of our competitors; •the cost of litigation, including potential patent litigation with Sanofi-Aventis relating to Lovenox or with Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries relating to Copaxone that, in either case, is not otherwise covered by our collaboration agreement, or potential patent litigation with others, as well as any damages, including possibly treble damages, that may be owed to third parties should we be unsuccessful in such litigation; 28 Table of Contents •the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; •the continued progress in our research and development programs, including completion of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; •the potential acquisition and in-licensing of other technologies, products or assets; and •the cost of manufacturing, marketing and sales activities, if any. We may seek additional funding in the future and intend to do so through collaborative arrangements and public or private equity and debt financings. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute your percentage ownership of our common stock. Capital raised through debt financing would require us to make periodic interest payments and may impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Additional funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our research or development programs. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products which we would otherwise pursue on our own. Patent litigation with Sanofi-Aventis, the innovator of Lovenox, may cause delays and additional expense in the commercialization of M-Enoxaparin. If we are not successful in commercializing M-Enoxaparin or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business would be materially harmed, which could include, without limitation, the curtailment of our other development programs. Amphastar/Teva Patent Infringement Lawsuit In September 2003, Amphastar and Teva each separately filed an ANDA for enoxaparin containing Paragraph IV certifications. In response, Sanofi-Aventis brought lawsuits for patent infringement against both companies. A decision of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or Court of Appeals, in May 2008 affirmed a district court decision holding Aventis' patent on Lovenox unenforceable due to inequitable conduct. In September 2008, the Court of Appeals denied Sanofi-Aventis' petition for a rehearing or rehearing en banc. In January 2009, Sanofi-Aventis petitioned the United States Supreme Court for review of the case. The ability to commercialize and market M-Enoxaparin, may depend in part upon the final outcome of this litigation and we cannot be certain when the outcome of the litigation will be final. Sandoz Patent Infringement Lawsuit In response to the Paragraph IV certifications contained in the Sandoz ANDAs for M-Enoxaparin, Sanofi-Aventis brought patent infringement suits against Sandoz. Sandoz moved to dismiss the suits based upon the decision in the Amphastar/Teva case, and in September 2008 the District Court ruled in favor of Sandoz. Sanofi-Aventis has appealed this decision to the Court of Appeals and this appeal is pending. The automatic 30-month stay, which issued upon the initiation of this case and prohibited FDA approval of Sandoz' ANDA, terminated in August 2008 upon the entry of the final judgment in the District Court. However, if this case is not dismissed on appeal, or a dismissal is reversed on a further petition to the Supreme Court, the ability to commercialize and market M-Enoxaparin could be significantly affected. We cannot be certain when the outcome of this case will be final or provide assurance that we will ultimately prevail. Under our 2003 Sandoz Collaboration, the decision as to when to begin marketing M-Enoxaparin if the ANDA is approved will be determined jointly by us and Sandoz in most circumstances. However, Sandoz does have sole discretion over the decision as to when to begin marketing M-Enoxaparin under certain circumstances. Sandoz could decide to market M-Enoxaparin "at risk," that is prior to final 29 Table of Contents resolution of either the Teva and Amphastar or Sandoz litigation matters, which could result in significant damages, including possibly treble damages, in the event Sanofi-Aventis is successful in either patent litigation case. Although Sandoz has agreed to indemnify us for patent liability damages, Sandoz has the right to offset certain of these liabilities against the profit-sharing amounts, the royalties and the milestone payments otherwise due to us from the marketing of M-Enoxaparin. Litigation involves many risks and uncertainties, and there is no assurance that Amphastar, Teva, Sandoz or we will prevail in any lawsuit with Sanofi-Aventis. In addition, Sanofi-Aventis has significant resources and any litigation with Sanofi-Aventis could last a number of years, potentially delaying or prohibiting the commercialization of M-Enoxaparin. If, as a result of protracted litigation, we are not successful in commercializing M-Enoxaparin or are significantly delayed in doing so, we may have to curtail our other product development programs and our business would be materially harmed. We will need to develop or acquire additional technologies as part of our efforts to analyze the chemical composition of complex mixture drugs. In order to adequately analyze other complex mixture drugs, such as glycoproteins, we will need to develop or acquire new technologies. Our inability to develop or acquire and apply these new technologies would impair our ability to develop improved, next-generation or follow-on versions of existing products. Our inability to develop or acquire additional technology for the characterization of complex mixtures could reduce the likelihood of our success developing additional products. Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our financial results will suffer. The markets in which we intend to compete are undergoing, and are expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made or new biotechnology products are introduced. New developments by competitors may render our current or future product candidates and/or technologies non-competitive, obsolete or not economical. Our competitors' products may be more efficacious or marketed and sold more effectively than any of our products. Many of our competitors have: •significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialization process; •more extensive experience in commercializing generic drugs, conducting preclinical studies, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, challenging patents and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; •products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and •collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and/or research institutions. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our drug candidates, we will face competition based on many different factors, including: •the safety and effectiveness of our products; •the differential availability of clinical data and experience between a brand manufacturer that conducts clinical trials and a generic manufacturer; •the timing and scope of regulatory approvals for these products; •the availability and cost of manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sales capabilities; 30 Table of Contents •the effectiveness of our marketing, distribution and sales capabilities; •the price of our products; •the availability and amount of third-party reimbursement for our products; and •the strength of our patent position. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages in regard to any of these factors. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in commercializing their products than we are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. If we are unable to establish and maintain key customer distribution arrangements, sales of our products, and therefore revenues, would decline. Generic pharmaceutical products are sold through various channels, including retail, mail order, and to hospitals through group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. As enoxaparin is primarily a hospital-based product, we expect to derive a large percentage of our future revenue for M-Enoxaparin through contracts with GPOs. Currently, a relatively small number of GPOs control a substantial portion of generic pharmaceutical sales to hospital customers. In order to establish and maintain contracts with these GPOs, we believe that we, in collaboration with Sandoz, will need to maintain adequate drug supplies, remain price competitive, comply with FDA regulations and provide high-quality products. The GPOs with whom we hope to establish contracts may also have relationships with our competitors and may decide to contract for or otherwise prefer products other than ours, limiting access of M-Enoxaparin to certain hospital segments. Our sales could also be negatively affected by any rebates, discounts or fees that are required by our customers, including the GPOs, wholesalers, distributors, retail chains or mail order services, to gain and retain market acceptance for our products. We anticipate that M356 will be primarily distributed through retail channels and mail order services. If we are unable to establish and maintain distribution arrangements with all of these customers, future sales of our products, including M-Enoxaparin and M356, our revenues and our profits would suffer. Even if we receive approval to market our drug candidates, the market may not be receptive to our drug candidates upon their commercial introduction, which could prevent us from being profitable. Even if our drug candidates are successfully developed, our success and growth will also depend upon the acceptance of these drug candidates by physicians and third-party payors. Acceptance of our product development candidates will be a function of our products being clinically useful, being cost effective and demonstrating superior therapeutic effect with an acceptable side effect profile as compared to existing or future treatments. In addition, even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time. Factors that we believe will materially affect market acceptance of our drug candidates under development include: •the timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any approval and the countries in which approvals are obtained; •the safety, efficacy and ease of administration of our products; •the competitive pricing of our products; •the success and extent of our physician education and marketing programs; •the clinical, medical affairs, sales, distribution and marketing efforts of competitors; and •the availability and amount of government and third-party payor reimbursement. 31 Table of Contents If our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenues from product sales to maintain or grow our business. If we are not able to retain our current management team or attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel, our business will suffer. We are dependent on the members of our management team for our business success. Our employment arrangements with our executive officers are terminable by either party on short notice or no notice. We do not carry life insurance on the lives of any of our personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers would result in a significant loss in the knowledge and experience that we, as an organization, possess and could cause significant delays, or outright failure, in the development and approval of our product candidates. In addition, there is intense competition from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions, for human resources, including management, in the technical fields in which we operate, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If our existing product liability insurance is insufficient, a product liability claim against us that exceeds the amount of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our business. Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. Product liability claims could delay or prevent completion of our development programs. If we succeed in marketing products, such claims could result in a recall of our products or a change in the indications for which they may be used. While we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage that we believe is adequate for our current operations, we cannot be sure that such coverage will be adequate to cover any incident or all incidents. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product development and commercialization efforts. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in drug discovery and development into one that is also involved in the commercialization of drug products, we may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As we advance our drug candidates through the development process, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing capabilities or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. For example, several jurisdictions such as the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts have imposed new licensing requirements for sales representatives and new reporting requirements that would require public reporting of consulting and research fees to health care professionals. Because the reporting requirements vary in each jurisdiction, compliance will be complex and expensive. The need to build new systems as part of our growth could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. 32 Table of Contents We may acquire or make investments in companies or technologies that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows. We may acquire or invest in companies, products and technologies. Such transactions involve a number of risks, including: •we may find that the acquired company or assets does not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate a future impairment charge; •difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; •difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies; •difficulties or failures with the performance of the acquired technologies or drug products; •we may face product liability risks associated with the sale of the acquired company's products; •disruption or diversion of management's attention by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing diverse locations; •difficulty maintaining uniform standards, internal controls, procedures and policies; •the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; and •we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as out-of-pocket costs. The consideration paid in connection with an acquisition also affects our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Risks Relating to Development and Regulatory Approval If we are not able to obtain regulatory approval for commercial sale of our generic product candidates, including M-Enoxaparin and M356, as therapeutic equivalents to their corresponding reference listed drugs, our future results of operations will be adversely affected. Our future results of operations depend to a significant degree on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize generic versions of complex drugs, such as M-Enoxaparin and M356. We will be required to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, among other things, that our generic products: •contain the same active ingredients as the branded products upon which they are based, 33 Table of Contents •are of the same dosage form, strength and route of administration as the branded products upon which they are based, and have the same labeling as the approved labeling for the branded products, with certain exceptions, and •meet compendial or other applicable standards for strength, quality, purity and identity, including potency. In addition, approval of a generic product generally requires demonstrating that the generic drug is bioequivalent to the reference listed drug upon which it is based, meaning that there are no significant differences with respect to the rate and extent to which the active ingredients are absorbed and become available at the site of drug action. However, the FDA may or may not waive the requirements for certain bioequivalence data (including clinical data) for certain drug products, including injectable solutions that have been shown to contain the same active and inactive ingredients in the same concentration as the reference listed drug. Determination of therapeutic equivalence of our generic versions of complex drugs to the reference listed drugs will be based, in part, on our demonstration of the chemical equivalence of our versions to their respective reference listed drugs. The FDA may not agree that we have adequately characterized our products or that our products and their respective branded drugs are chemical equivalents. In that case, the FDA may require additional information, including preclinical or clinical test results, to determine therapeutic equivalence or to confirm that any inactive ingredients or impurities do not compromise the product's safety and efficacy. Provision of sufficient information for approval may be difficult, expensive and lengthy. We cannot predict whether any of our generic product candidates will receive FDA approval. In the event that the FDA modifies its current standards for therapeutic equivalence with respect to generic versions of Lovenox, Copaxone or other complex drug products, does not establish standards for interchangeability for generic versions of complex drug products, or requires us to conduct clinical trials or complete other lengthy procedures, the commercialization of some of our development candidates could be delayed or prevented or become more expensive. Delays in any part of the process or our inability to obtain regulatory approval for our products could adversely affect our operating results by restricting or significantly delaying our introduction of new products. If the United States Congress does not take action to create an abbreviated regulatory pathway for follow-on biologics, and if the FDA is not able to establish specific guidelines regarding the scientific analyses required for characterizing follow-on versions of biologics and complex protein drugs, then the uncertainty about the potential value of our glycoprotein program will be increased. The regulatory climate in the United States for follow-on versions of biologics and complex protein products remains uncertain. Although there has been recent legislative activity, there is currently no established statutory or regulatory pathway for approval of follow-on versions of biologics and most protein drugs. The FDA has approved the majority of new protein products under the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, through the use of Biologic License Applications, or BLAs. There is no provision in the PHSA for an abbreviated BLA approval pathway comparable to an ANDA under Section 505(j) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, and the FDA has stated it does not believe it has the authority to rely on prior BLA approvals or on their underlying data to approve follow-on products. Moreover, even for proteins originally approved as NDAs under Section 505(b) of the FDCA, there is uncertainty as to what data the FDA may require to demonstrate the sameness required for approval of an ANDA. In addition, there has been opposition to the FDA's use of section 505(b)(2), which allows an applicant to rely on information from published scientific literature and/or a prior approval of a similar drug, to approve follow-on versions of protein and other complex drug products approved under section 505(b)(1) of the FDCA. 34 Table of Contents Although the FDA has previously stated its intention to draft guidance that is broadly applicable to follow-on protein products, the agency has not issued such guidance to date and may never do so. Protracted timelines and failure of the FDA to establish standards for approval of follow-on protein products or failure of the United States Congress to enact legislation establishing an abbreviated pathway for approval of follow-on biologics could reduce the value of, or render obsolete, our glycoprotein program. If our preclinical studies and clinical trials for our development candidates, including M118, are not successful, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for commercial sale of our novel or improved drug candidates. To obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our novel drug candidates, we are required to demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that our drug development candidates are safe and effective. Preclinical studies and clinical trials of new development candidates are lengthy and expensive and the historical failure rate for development candidates is high. A failure of one or more of our preclinical studies or clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical studies and clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize M118 or our other drug candidates, including: •regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; •our preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may be required to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or we may abandon projects that we previously expected to be promising; •enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, resulting in significant delays, and participants may drop out of our clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate; •we might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •regulators or institutional review boards may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; •the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; and •the effects of our drug candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or our product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. The results from preclinical studies of a development candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in human clinical trials. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of M118 or our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other tests, or if the results of these trials are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our drug candidates or we may not be able to obtain marketing approval at all. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. Significant clinical trial delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or potential products. If any of these events occur, our business will be materially harmed. 35 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products abroad. We intend in the future to market our products outside of the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with the numerous and varying regulatory requirements of each jurisdiction. The approval procedure and requirements vary among countries, and can require, among other things, submitting or conducting additional testing in each jurisdiction. The time required to obtain approval abroad may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in any other foreign country or by the FDA. We and our collaborators may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market outside of the United States. The failure to obtain these approvals could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing United States and foreign regulations, we could lose our approvals to market drugs and our business would be seriously harmed. Even after approval, any drug products we develop will be subject to ongoing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results which are reported after our drug products are made commercially available. In addition, the manufacturer and manufacturing facilities we use to produce any of our drug candidates will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. We will be required to report any serious and unexpected adverse experiences and certain quality problems with our products and make other periodic reports to the FDA. The discovery of any new or previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug or manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Certain changes to an approved product, including in the way it is manufactured or promoted, often require prior FDA approval before the product as modified may be marketed. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing FDA regulatory requirements, we may be subject to warning letters, civil penalties, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls and seizures, injunctions, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions and penalties. Similarly, we will be subject to comprehensive compliance obligations under state and federal reimbursement, anti-kickback and government pricing regulations. If we make false price reports, fail to implement adequate compliance controls or our employees violate the laws and regulations governing relationships with health care providers, we could also be subject to substantial fines and penalties, criminal prosecution and debarment from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other government reimbursement programs. If third-party payors do not adequately reimburse customers for any of our approved products, they might not be purchased or used, and our revenues and profits will not develop or increase. Our revenues and profits will depend heavily upon the availability of adequate reimbursement for the use of our approved product candidates from governmental and other third-party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor's determination that use of a product is: •a covered benefit under its health plan; •safe, effective and medically necessary; 36 Table of Contents •appropriate for the specific patient; •cost-effective; and •neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. There is substantial uncertainty whether any particular payor will reimburse the use of any drug product incorporating new technology. Even when a payor determines that a product is eligible for reimbursement, the payor may impose coverage limitations that preclude payment for some uses that are approved by the FDA or comparable authority. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the product and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare, Medicaid or other data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect payments for our products. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third-party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and both CMS and other third-party payors may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Due in part to actions by third-party payors, the health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from government-funded and private payors for our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our overall financial condition. If efforts by manufacturers of branded products to delay or limit the use of generics are successful, our sales of technology-enabled generic products may suffer. Many manufacturers of branded products have increasingly used legislative, regulatory and other means to delay competition from manufacturers of generic drugs. These efforts have included: •settling patent lawsuits with generic companies, resulting in such patents remaining an obstacle for generic approval by others; •settling paragraph IV patent litigation with generic companies to prevent the expiration of the 180-day generic marketing exclusivity period or to delay the triggering of such exclusivity period; •submitting Citizen Petitions to request the FDA Commissioner to take administrative action with respect to prospective and submitted generic drug applications; •seeking changes to the United States Pharmacopeia, an industry recognized compilation of drug standards; 37 Table of Contents •pursuing new patents for existing products or processes which could extend patent protection for a number of years or otherwise delay the launch of generic drugs; and •attaching special patent extension amendments to unrelated federal legislation. In February 2003, Sanofi-Aventis filed a Citizen Petition with the FDA requesting that the FDA withhold approval of any ANDA for a generic version of Lovenox until and unless the FDA determines that the manufacturing process used by the generic applicant is equivalent to the process used to make Lovenox, or until the generic applicant demonstrates through clinical trials that its product is equally safe and effective as Lovenox, and unless the generic product is shown to contain a specific molecular structure. Teva, Amphastar, and others have filed comments opposing the Sanofi-Aventis Citizen Petition, and Sanofi-Aventis has filed numerous supplements and reply comments in support of its Citizen Petition. The FDA has yet to rule on the Sanofi-Aventis Citizen Petition, and if the FDA ultimately grants the Sanofi-Aventis Citizen Petition, we and Sandoz may be unable to obtain approval of our ANDA for M-Enoxaparin, which would materially harm our business. In September 2008, Teva Neuroscience, Inc. (on behalf of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.) filed a Citizen Petition with the FDA requesting that the FDA neither approve nor accept for filing any ANDA for a generic version of Copaxone because the complexity of Copaxone makes it impossible to demonstrate that the active ingredient in the generic version is the same as Copaxone. The FDA has yet to rule on the Citizen Petition, and if the FDA ultimately grants the Citizen Petition, we and Sandoz may be unable to obtain approval of the ANDA for M356, which would materially harm our business. Further, some manufacturers of branded products have engaged in state-by-state initiatives to enact legislation that restricts the substitution of some branded drugs with generic drugs. If these efforts to delay or block competition are successful, we may be unable to sell our generic products, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Federal legislation will increase the pressure to reduce prices of pharmaceutical products paid for by Medicare, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and reimburses for pharmaceutical products. The legislation introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs that are used in hospital settings or under the direct supervision of a physician and, starting in 2006, expanded Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly. In addition, the MMA requires the creation of formularies for self-administered drugs, and provides authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class and provides for plan sponsors to negotiate prices with manufacturers and suppliers of covered drugs. As a result of the MMA and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect continuing pressure to contain and reduce costs of pharmaceutical products. Cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for our products and could materially adversely affect our operating results and overall financial condition. While the MMA generally applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies, and any reduction in coverage or payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in coverage or payments from private payors. Congress has from time to time considered other legislation, which if enacted, would permit more widespread re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States and which may include re-importation from foreign countries where drugs are frequently sold at lower prices than in the United States; other proposed legislation would have removed restrictions on CMS' ability to negotiate discounts directly with prescription drug manufacturers provided through the Medicare 38 Table of Contents program. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, could decrease the reimbursement we receive for any approved products which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our operating results and our overall financial condition. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price or reimbursement controls, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any. In some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing and/or reimbursement of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be adversely affected. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development involves, and may in the future involve, the use of hazardous materials and chemicals and certain radioactive materials and related equipment. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we spent approximately $65,000, $64,000 and $31,000, respectively, in order to comply with environmental and waste disposal regulations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance as prescribed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and, for claims not covered by workers' compensation insurance, employer's liability insurance, to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. Risks Relating to Patents and Licenses If we are not able to obtain and enforce patent protection for our discoveries, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will be harmed and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents related to our current or future product candidates. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in scientific literature lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in our patent applications. As a result, we may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents to market our proposed products. If licenses 39 Table of Contents are not available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to market the affected products. Our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. This process is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards which the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in pharmaceutical or biotechnology patents. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary information to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems and costs in protecting their proprietary information in these foreign countries. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and/or opposition proceedings, and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. Moreover, once they have issued, our patents and any patent for which we have licensed or may license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. If our patents are invalidated or otherwise limited, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, forcing us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Any unfavorable outcome of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. If any party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property rights or that our creation or use of proprietary technology infringes upon its intellectual property rights, we might be forced to incur expenses to respond to and litigate the claims. Furthermore, we may be ordered to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's patent rights. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in litigation, or pending the outcome of litigation, a court could issue a temporary injunction or a permanent injunction preventing us from marketing and selling the patented drug or other technology for the life of the patent that we have allegedly or been deemed to have infringed. Litigation concerning intellectual property and proprietary technologies is becoming 40 Table of Contents more widespread and can be protracted and expensive, and can distract management and other key personnel from performing their duties for us. Any legal action against us or our collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin any activities, including commercial activities relating to the affected products, and processes could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us or our collaborators to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings to determine or enforce our intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial costs which could adversely affect our business. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party patent or other proprietary rights in jurisdictions where we intend to market our products, including the United States, the European Union, and many other foreign jurisdictions. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to determining the validity of intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial and could divert our management's efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they may have substantially greater resources. Moreover, the failure to obtain a favorable outcome in any litigation in a jurisdiction where there is a claim of patent infringement could significantly delay the marketing of our products in that particular jurisdiction. The costs and uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. We in-license a significant portion of our proprietary technologies and if we fail to comply with our obligations under any of the related agreements, we could lose license rights that are necessary to develop our product candidates. We are a party to and rely on a number of in-license agreements with third parties, such as those with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, that give us rights to intellectual property that is necessary for our business. In addition, we expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. Our current in-license arrangements impose various diligence, development, royalty and other obligations on us. If we breach our obligations with regard to our exclusive in-licenses, they could be converted to non-exclusive licenses or the agreements could be terminated, which would result in our being unable to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by the licensed technology. Risks Relating to Our Dependence on Third Parties Our 2003 Sandoz Collaboration and 2006 Sandoz Collaboration are important to our business. If Sandoz fails to adequately perform under either collaboration, or if we or Sandoz terminate all or a portion of either collaboration, the development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates, including injectable enoxaparin, would be delayed or terminated and our business would be adversely affected. 2003 Sandoz Collaboration Either we or Sandoz may terminate the 2003 Sandoz Collaboration for material uncured breaches or certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. Sandoz may also terminate the 2003 41 Table of Contents Sandoz Collaboration if the injectable enoxaparin product or the market lacks commercial viability, if new laws or regulations are passed or court decisions rendered that substantially diminish our legal avenues for commercialization of M-Enoxaparin, or, in multiple cases, if certain costs exceed mutually agreed upon limits. If the 2003 Sandoz Collaboration is terminated other than due to our uncured breach or bankruptcy, we will be granted an exclusive license under certain intellectual property of Sandoz to develop and commercialize injectable enoxaparin in the United States. In that event, we would need to expand our internal capabilities or enter into another collaboration, which could cause significant delays that could prevent us from completing the development and commercialization of injectable enoxaparin. If Sandoz terminates the 2003 Sandoz Collaboration due to our uncured breach or bankruptcy, Sandoz would retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize injectable enoxaparin in the United States. In that event, we would no longer have any influence over the development or commercialization strategy of injectable M-Enoxaparin in the United States. In addition, Sandoz would retain its rights of first negotiation with respect to certain of our other products in certain circumstances and its rights of first refusal outside of the United States and the European Union. Accordingly, if Sandoz terminates the 2003 Sandoz Collaboration, our introduction of M-Enoxaparin may be significantly delayed, we may decide to discontinue the M-Enoxaparin project, or our revenues may be reduced, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 2006 Sandoz Collaboration Either we or Sandoz may terminate the collaboration and license agreement, or Definitive Agreement, we executed with Sandoz in June 2007, as amended in April 2008, for material uncured breaches or certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency by the other party. In addition, the following termination rights apply to some of the products, on a product-by-product basis: if clinical trials are required; if the parties agree, or the relevant regulatory authority states in writing, that our intellectual property does not contribute to product approval; if Sandoz decides to permanently cease development and commercialization of a product; by either party with respect to certain products if, following a change of control of the other party, the other party fails to perform its material obligations with respect to such product. For some of the products, for any termination of the Definitive Agreement other than a termination by Sandoz due to our uncured breach or bankruptcy, or a termination by us alone due to the need for clinical trials, we will be granted an exclusive license under certain intellectual property of Sandoz to develop and commercialize the particular product. In that event, we would need to expand our internal capabilities or enter into another collaboration, which could cause significant delays that could prevent us from completing the development and commercialization of such product. For some products, if Sandoz terminates the Definitive Agreement due to our uncured breach or bankruptcy, or if there is a termination by us alone due to the need for clinical trials, Sandoz would retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize the applicable product. In that event, we would no longer have any influence over the development or commercialization strategy of such product. In addition, for other products, if Sandoz terminates due to our uncured breach or bankruptcy, Sandoz retains a right to license certain of our intellectual property without the obligation to make any additional payments for such licenses. For certain products, if the Definitive Agreement is terminated other than due to our uncured breach or bankruptcy, neither party will have a license to the other party's intellectual property. In that event, we would need to expand our internal capabilities or enter into another collaboration, which could cause significant delays that could prevent us from completing the development and commercialization of such product. Accordingly, if the Definitive Agreement is terminated, our introduction of certain products may be significantly delayed, or our revenues may be significantly reduced either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 42 Table of Contents We may need or elect to enter into alliances or collaborations with other companies to supplement and enhance our own capabilities or fund our development efforts. If we are unsuccessful in forming or maintaining these alliances on favorable terms, or if any collaborative partner terminates or fails to perform its obligations, our business could be adversely affected. Because we have limited or no capabilities for manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution, we may need to enter into alliances or collaborations with other companies that can assist with the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. In those situations, we would expect our alliance or collaborative partners to provide substantial capabilities in manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution. We may not be successful in entering into any such alliances. Even if we do succeed in securing such alliances, we may not be able to maintain them. Factors that may affect the success of our collaborations include the following: •disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with collaborators; •our collaborators may pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that may be competitive with the products on which they are collaborating with us or which could affect our collaborators' commitment to our collaborations; •our collaborators may terminate their collaborations with us, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the business and financial communities; •our collaborators may pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of their development programs, which could affect the collaborators' commitment to us; and •our collaborators with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates, if any are approved for marketing, than to products from their own development programs. In addition to relying on a third party for its capabilities, we may depend on our alliances with other companies to provide substantial additional funding for development and potential commercialization of our drug candidates. We may not be able to obtain funding on favorable terms from these alliances, and if we are not successful in doing so, we may not have sufficient funds to develop particular drug candidates internally, or to bring drug candidates to market. Failure or delays in bringing our drug candidates to market will reduce their competitiveness and prevent us from generating sales revenues, which may substantially harm our business. Furthermore, in an effort to continually update and enhance our proprietary technology platform, we enter into agreements with other companies to develop, license, acquire and/or collaborate on various technologies. If we are unable to enter into the desired agreements, if the agreements do not yield the intended results or if the agreements terminate, we may need to find alternative approaches to such technology needs. If any of these occur, the development and commercialization of one or more drug candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated, any of which may adversely affect our business. 43 Table of Contents We and our collaborative partners depend on third parties for the manufacture of products. If we encounter difficulties in our supply or manufacturing arrangements, our business may be materially adversely affected. We have a limited number of personnel with experience in, and we do not own facilities for, manufacturing products. In addition, we do not have, and do not intend to develop, the ability to manufacture material for our clinical trials or at commercial scale. To develop our drug candidates, apply for regulatory approvals and commercialize any products, we or our collaborative partners need to contract for or otherwise arrange for the necessary manufacturing facilities and capabilities. If these contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of product, comply with regulatory requirements, or breach or terminate their manufacturing arrangements with us, the development and commercialization of the affected products or drug candidates could be delayed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, any change in these manufacturers could be costly because the commercial terms of any new arrangement could be less favorable and because the expenses relating to the transfer of necessary technology and processes could be significant. We have relied upon third parties to produce material for preclinical and clinical studies and may continue to do so in the future. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain and/or maintain long-term supply and supply arrangements of those materials on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to arrange for third-party manufacturing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to complete development of our products or market them. In addition, the FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to cGMP regulations and that proper procedures are implemented to assure the quality of our sourcing of raw materials and the manufacture of our products. Any failure by us, our collaborative partners or our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP, and/or our failure to scale-up our manufacturing processes could lead to a delay in, or failure to obtain, regulatory approval. In addition, such failure could be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals for drug candidates previously granted to us and for other regulatory action. To the extent we rely on a third-party manufacturer, the risk of non-compliance with cGMPs may be greater and the ability to effect corrective actions for any such noncompliance may be compromised or delayed. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenues. We do not have a sales organization and have no experience as a company in the sale, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities, as well as entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. In addition, to the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing or distribution services, we will have less control over sales of our products and our future revenues would depend heavily on the success of the efforts of these third parties. General Company Related Risks Our directors, executive officers and major stockholders have substantial influence or control over matters submitted to stockholders for approval that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates and related persons, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 23.7% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to significantly influence matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of 44 Table of Contents our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; •entrenching our management and/or board of directors; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: •a classified board of directors; •a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; and •limitations on the removal of directors. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Finally, these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our stock price may be volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The stock market in general and the market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. Furthermore, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: •failure to obtain FDA approval for the M-Enoxaparin or M356 ANDA; •other adverse FDA decisions relating to M-Enoxaparin or M356, including an FDA decision to require additional data, including requiring clinical trials, as a condition to M-Enoxaparin or M356 approval; •FDA approval of other companies' ANDAs for generic versions of Lovenox or Copaxone; •litigation involving our company or our general industry or both; 45 Table of Contents •a decision in favor of or against Sanofi-Aventis in any of the current patent litigation matters, or a settlement related to any of those cases; •failure of our other product applications to meet the requirements for regulatory review and/or approval; •results or delays in our or our competitors' clinical trials or regulatory filings; •failure to demonstrate therapeutic equivalence with respect to our technology-enabled generic product candidates; •demonstration of or failure to demonstrate the safety and efficacy for our novel development product candidates; •our inability to manufacture any products in conformance with cGMP or in commercial quantities; •failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; •developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; •termination of any of our strategic partnerships; •significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; •investors' general perception of our company, our products, the economy and general market conditions; and •significant fluctuations in the price of securities generally or biotech company securities specifically. If any of these factors causes an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, the price of our common stock could fall and investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above their respective purchase prices. We could be subject to class action litigation due to stock price volatility, which, if it occurs, will distract our management and could result in substantial costs or large judgments against us. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the market prices of securities of companies in the biotechnology industry have been extremely volatile and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 46 Table of Contents 