Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only significant risks we may face. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on contracts with the United States Department of Defense for a significant portion of our revenue, and if our relationship with this customer is disrupted, we would experience a significant decrease in revenue and income. We have two material contracts with the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service, or DRMS, under which we acquire, manage and sell surplus and scrap property of the DoD. If our relationship with the DoD is impaired, we are not awarded new DoD contracts when our current contracts expire, any of our DoD contracts are terminated or the supply of assets under the contracts significantly decreased, we would experience a significant decrease in revenue and have difficulty generating income. The Surplus Contract accounted for 33.9%, 31.3% and 32.8% of our revenue and 28.8%, 23.0% and 21.8% of our GMV for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The Scrap Contract accounted for 27.6%, 31.1% and 21.5% of our revenue and for 23.5%, 22.8% and 14.2% of our GMV in fiscal year 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. We believe that these contracts will continue to be the source of a significant portion of our revenue and GMV during their respective terms. The Surplus Contract has a three-year base term that expires in February 2012, subject to the DoD's right to extend for two additional one-year terms. The Scrap Contract has a seven-year base term that expires in August 2012, subject to the DoD's right to extend for three additional one-year terms. The contracts were awarded by the DoD through a competitive bidding process, and we may be required to go through a new competitive bidding process when our existing contracts expire. Our Surplus Contract with the DoD allows either party to terminate the contract for convenience. Although our Scrap Contract does not allow the DoD to terminate for convenience, it requires us to meet specified performance benchmarks. The Scrap Contract may be terminated by the DoD if rate of return performance ratios do not exceed specified benchmark ratios for two consecutive quarterly periods and the preceding twelve months. Although, to date, we have never failed to meet the required benchmark ratios during any of the testing periods, we cannot assure you that we will meet the performance benchmarks in the future. The DoD also has the right, after giving us notice and a 30 day opportunity to cure, to terminate the contracts and seek other contract remedies in the event of material breaches. Unfavorable findings resulting from a government investigation or audit could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions, could negatively impact our future operating results and could force us to adjust previously reported operating results. In the past, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) has cited weaknesses in DoD excess inventory control procedures and lax security at selected DoD facilities with respect to surplus property. In July 2006, the GAO asserted that we failed to verify the appropriate DoD regulatory classifications for certain items we sold and, as a result, we sold items we should have instead returned to the DoD. We do not believe that we have a contractual responsibility under our DoD contracts to assign these classifications; we believe that the DoD has the contractual obligation to assign these classifications. In July 2006, the GAO also identified buyers that collectively purchased sensitive military items and stated that the GAO was referring these sales to federal law enforcement agencies for investigation. These 17 Table of Contents buyers may have acquired these sensitive military items from us. It is possible that other government and law enforcement agencies may also investigate these sales, our company and our activities under our DoD contracts. If an investigation alleges that we engaged in improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, whether or not these allegations have merit. The federal government has the right to audit our performance under our government contracts. Any adverse findings from audits or reviews of our performance under our contracts could result in a significant adjustment to our previously reported operating results. For example, some of our DoD contracts provide that we share sales profits with the government. The federal government may disagree with our calculation of the profits realized from the sales of government surplus assets and may require us to increase profit-sharing payments to the government that have been made in the past. If this occurs, our past operating margins may be reduced. The results of an audit by the government could significantly limit the volume and type of merchandise made available to us under our contracts with the DoD, resulting in lower gross merchandise volume, revenue, and profitability for our company. If such a government audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we could be subject to the civil and criminal penalties, administrative sanctions and reputational harm described above. If, as the result of such an audit, or for any other reason, we are suspended or debarred from contracting with the federal government generally, or any specific agency, if our reputation or relationship with government agencies is impaired, or if the government otherwise ceases doing business with us or significantly decreases the amount of business it does with us, our revenue and profitability would substantially decrease. The success of our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain a supply of merchandise for our buyers and to attract and retain active professional buyers to create sufficient demand for our sellers. Our ability to increase our revenue and maintain profitability depends on whether we can successfully expand the supply of merchandise available for sale on our online marketplaces and attract and retain active professional buyers to purchase the merchandise. Our ability to attract sufficient quantities of suitable merchandise and new buyers will depend on various factors, some of which are out of our control. These factors include our ability to: •offer sellers liquid marketplaces for their surplus and salvage assets; •offer buyers a sufficient supply of merchandise; •develop and implement effective sales and marketing strategies; •comply with regulatory or corporate seller requirements affecting marketing and disposition of certain categories of merchandise; •efficiently catalogue, handle, store, ship and track merchandise; and •achieve high levels of seller and buyer satisfaction with the trading experience. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors. The online services market for auctioning or liquidating surplus and salvage assets is competitive and growing rapidly. Competitive pressures could affect our ability to attract and retain customers, which could decrease our revenue and negatively affect our operating results. We currently compete with: •other e-commerce providers, such as Amazon.com, GSI Commerce and Overstock.com; 18 Table of Contents •auction websites such as eBay; •government agencies that have created websites to sell surplus and salvage assets; and •traditional liquidators and fixed-site auctioneers. We expect our market to become even more competitive as traditional and online liquidators and auctioneers continue to develop online and offline services for disposition, redeployment and remarketing of surplus and salvage assets. In addition, manufacturers, retailers and government agencies may decide to create their own websites to sell their own surplus and salvage assets and those of third parties. Some of our other current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger client bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to devote greater financial resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, secure merchandise from sellers on more favorable terms, adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we are able to do. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have expanded our operations rapidly since our inception in 1999. Although we currently do not have specific plans for any expansion that would require significant capital investment, in the future we plan to expand our operations further by developing new or complementary services, products, or trading formats and enhancing the breadth and depth of our value-added services. We also plan to continue to expand our sales and marketing, technology and client support organizations. In addition, we will likely need to continue to improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to effectively implement these plans and to otherwise manage our expanding operations, we may not be able to execute our business strategy and our operating results could significantly decrease. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our prior operating results have fluctuated due to changes in our business and the e-commerce industry. Similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: •the addition of new buyers and sellers or the loss of existing buyers and sellers; •the volume, size, timing and completion rate of transactions in our marketplaces; •changes in the supply and demand for and the volume, price, mix and quality of our supply of surplus and salvage assets; •introduction of new or enhanced websites, services or product offerings by us or our competitors; •implementation of significant new contracts; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; 19 Table of Contents •changes in the conditions and economic prospects of the e-commerce industry or the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective buyers' and sellers' priorities; •technical difficulties, including telecommunication system or Internet failures; •changes in government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce industry; •event-driven disruptions such as war, terrorism, disease and natural disasters; •seasonal patterns in selling and purchasing activity; and •costs related to acquisitions of technology or equipment. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in some future periods. If this occurs, even temporarily, it could cause volatility in our stock price. Our operating results depend on our websites, network infrastructure and transaction processing systems. Service interruptions or system failures could negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue. Any system interruptions that affect our websites or our transaction systems could impair the services that we provide to our sellers and buyers. In addition, our systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of other sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Improving the reliability and redundancy of our systems may be expensive, reduce our margins and may not be successful in preventing system failures. Our services are also substantially dependent on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. We have occasionally experienced interruptions to our services due to system failures unrelated to our own systems. Any interruptions or failures of our current systems or our ability to communicate with third party systems could negatively affect the demand for our services and our ability to grow our revenue. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes or upgrade our systems, we could fail to grow our business and our revenue could decrease. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our e-commerce business. Although we currently do not have specific plans for any upgrades that would require significant capital investment, in the future we will need to improve and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure in order to allow our operations to grow in both size and scope. Without such improvements, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions, slow transaction processing, unreliable service levels, or impaired quality or delays in reporting accurate financial information, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain sellers and buyers. We may also face material delays in introducing new services, products and enhancements. The Internet and the e-commerce industry are rapidly changing. If competitors introduce new products and services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing websites and our proprietary technology and systems may become obsolete. In addition, the expansion and improvement of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, with no assurance our business will increase. If we fail to respond to technological change or to adequately maintain, expand, upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure in a timely fashion our ability to grow could be limited and our revenue could decrease. 20 Table of Contents Shipment of merchandise sold in our marketplaces could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control and we could lose buyers and sellers as a result. We rely upon third party carriers such as United Parcel Services, or UPS, for timely delivery of our merchandise shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor difficulties, inclement weather, terrorist activity and increased fuel costs. In addition, we do not have a long-term agreement with UPS or any other third party carriers, and we cannot be sure that our relationship with UPS will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. If our relationship with UPS is terminated or impaired or if UPS is unable to deliver merchandise for us, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our buyers. We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, if at all. Potential adverse consequences include: •reduced visibility of order status and package tracking; •delays in merchandise receipt and delivery; •increased cost of shipment; and •reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged merchandise. Any failure to receive merchandise at our distribution centers or deliver products to our buyers in a timely and accurate manner could lead to client dissatisfaction and cause us to lose sellers and buyers. A significant interruption in the operations of our customer service system or our distribution centers could harm our business and operating results. Our business depends, to a large degree, on effective customer service and distribution center operations. We currently staff DoD warehouse distribution space, for which we do not incur leasing costs, as well as leased commercial warehouse distribution space. These operations could be harmed by several factors, including any material disruption or slowdown at our distribution centers resulting from labor disputes, changes in the terms of our underlying lease agreements or occupancy arrangements in the case of government provided facilities, telecommunications failures, power or service outages, human error, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other events. In addition, space provided to us by the DoD could be re-configured or reduced as a result of the DoD's Base Realignment and Closure initiative or other infrastructure reduction initiatives. If we fail to accurately predict our ability to sell merchandise in which we take inventory risk and credit risk, our margins may decline as a result of lower sale prices from such merchandise. Under our profit-sharing and purchase model, we purchase merchandise and assume the risk that the merchandise may sell for less than we paid for it. We assume general and physical inventory and credit risk. These risks are especially significant because some of the goods we sell on our websites are characterized by rapid technological change, obsolescence and price erosion, and because we sometimes make large purchases of particular types of inventory. In addition, we do not receive warranties on the goods we purchase and, as a result, we have to resell or dispose of any returned goods. Historically, the number of disposed goods (which includes returned goods that we have not resold) has been less than 2% of the goods we have purchased. To manage our inventory successfully, we need to maintain sufficient buyer demand and sell merchandise for a reasonable financial return. We may miscalculate buyer demand and overpay for the acquired merchandise. In the event that merchandise is not attractive to our buyer base, we may be required to take significant losses resulting from lower sale prices, which could reduce our revenue and margins. For example, under the Surplus Contract, we are obligated to purchase all DoD surplus property at 1.8% of the original acquisition cost, which varies depending on the type of surplus property being purchased. Under the Scrap Contract, we acquire 21 Table of Contents scrap property at a per pound price. Recent declines in commodity prices may also reduce the profit we are able to realize in our scrap business. Occasionally, we are not able to sell our inventory for amounts above its cost and we may incur a loss. As we grow our business, we may choose to increase the amount of merchandise we purchase directly from sellers, thus resulting in increased inventory levels and related risk. Any such increase would require the use of additional working capital and subject us to the additional risk of incurring losses on the sale of that inventory. A protracted global recession could have a material adverse effect on our operating income, financial condition, cash flows and the trading price of our stock. A long-term global recession could reduce the demand for our services while decreasing the prices paid in our auctions and increasing our costs, which could adversely affect the results of our operations. For over a year, financial markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption which has, in recent months, reached unprecedented levels. International efforts to address the current global credit and banking crisis may be unsuccessful in preventing a global recession. The current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to borrowers. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. If our buyers and sellers are unable to obtain financing required to fund their operations, demand for our services may be adversely affected. In addition, this market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies or defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally, which may also adversely affect demand for our services. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our reputation and negatively impact the growth of our business. We regard our intellectual property, particularly domain names, copyrights and trade secrets, as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions and copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary rights, know-how, information and technology. Despite these protections, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization or independently develop similar intellectual property. We currently are the registered owners of several Internet domain names, including www.liquidation.com, www.govliquidation.com, www.liquibiz.com, www.govdeals.com and www.goWholesale.com. We pursue the registration of our domain names in the U.S. and internationally. We currently do not have any patents or registered copyrights, but we are pursuing patents. Effective patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade secret and domain name protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We seek to protect our domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions and may not be successful in doing so in certain jurisdictions. Our competitors may adopt trade names or domain names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to promote our marketplaces and possibly leading to client confusion. In addition, we could face trade name or trademark or service mark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered or unregistered trademarks or service marks, including trademarks or service marks that may incorporate variations of our marketplace names. Any claims related to our intellectual property or client confusion related to our marketplaces could damage our reputation and negatively impact the growth of our business. Our inability to use software licensed from third parties or our use of open source software under license terms that interfere with our proprietary rights could disrupt our business. We use software licensed from third parties, including some software, known as open source software that we use without charge. We currently use the following open source software: Linux (an operating system), MySql (database software), PERL (an interpreter) and Apache (a web server), and 22 Table of Contents we may in the future use additional open source software. In the future, these licenses to third party software may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Our inability to use third-party software could result in disruptions to our business, or delays in the development of future services or enhancements of existing services, which could impair our business. In addition, the terms of certain open source software licenses may require us to provide modified versions of the open source software, which we develop, if any, or any proprietary software that incorporates all or a portion of the open source software, if any, to others on unfavorable license terms that are consistent with the open source license term. If we are required to license our proprietary software in accordance with the foregoing, our competitors and other third parties could obtain access to our intellectual property, which could harm our business. Assertions that we infringe on intellectual property rights of others could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Other parties may assert that we have infringed on their technology or other intellectual property rights. We use internally developed systems and licensed technology to operate our online auction platform and related websites. Third parties could assert intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our internally developed systems or use of licensed third party technology. Third parties also could assert intellectual property infringement claims against parties from whom we license technology. If we are forced to defend against any infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel and/or delays in completion of sales. Furthermore, the outcome of a dispute may be that we would need to change technology, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. A switch to different technology could cause interruptions in our business. Internal development of a non-infringing technology may be expensive and time-consuming, if we are able to successfully develop such technology at all. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Incurrence of any of these costs could negatively impact our operating results. If we do not retain our senior management, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management, particularly William P. Angrick, III, our chief executive officer. We do not have key-person insurance on any of our officers or employees. The loss of any member of our existing senior management team could damage key seller relationships, result in the loss of key information, expertise or know-how, lead to unanticipated recruitment and training costs and make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and achieve our business goals. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees, we might not be able to sustain our growth. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly employees with sales, marketing, operations and technology expertise. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and we may experience similar difficulties in the future. If we are unable to attract, assimilate and retain employees with the necessary skills, we may not be able to grow our business and revenue. 23 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to additional risks and challenges that could harm our business and our profitability. We have begun expanding internationally, and in the future we may do so more aggressively. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, international operations accounted for less than 8% of our revenue. International operations subject us to additional risks and challenges, including: •the need to develop new seller and buyer relationships; •difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; •changes in and differences between domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; •price controls and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; •difficulties in complying with export restrictions and import permits; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •lower per capita Internet usage and lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage; •political and economic instability; and •tariffs and other trade barriers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts in foreign countries. Some of these factors may cause our international costs to exceed our domestic costs of doing business. Failure to adequately address these risks could decrease our profitability and operating results. We may make acquisitions that require significant resources and could be unsuccessful. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products and technologies to complement our current business. We may not be able to identify, negotiate, finance, complete or integrate any future acquisition successfully. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results, diversion of management's attention, inability to retain key employees of the acquired business and risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities, some or all of which could disrupt our business and reduce the likelihood that we will receive the anticipated benefits of the acquisition in the amount or the time frame that we expect. Should we be unable successfully to integrate a new business, we could be required either to dispose of the operation or restructure the operation. In either event, our business could be disrupted and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. In addition, future transactions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Future transactions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We may need additional financing in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We may need additional funds to finance our operations, as well as to enhance our services, fund our expansion, respond to competitive pressures or acquire complementary businesses or technologies. However, our business may not generate the cash needed to finance such requirements. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced, and these securities may have rights, preferences or 24 Table of Contents privileges senior to those of our common stock. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to enhance our services, fund our expansion, respond to competitive pressures or take advantage of business opportunities would be significantly limited, and we might need to significantly restrict our operations. We face legal uncertainties relating to the Internet in general and to the e-commerce industry in particular and may become subject to costly government regulation. The laws and regulations related to the Internet and e-commerce are evolving. These laws and regulations relate to issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity and personal privacy could also affect our business. Laws adopted prior to the advent of the Internet may not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies and it is not clear how they will apply. Current and future laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business and/or decrease the demand for our services. Our auction business may be subject to a variety of additional costly government regulations. Many states and other jurisdictions have regulations governing the conduct of traditional "auctions" and the liability of traditional "auctioneers" in conducting auctions, which may apply to online auction services. In addition, certain states have laws or regulations that expressly apply to online auction services. We expect to continue to incur costs in complying with these laws and could be subject to fines or other penalties for any failure to comply with these laws. We may be required to make changes in our business to comply with these laws, which could increase our costs, reduce our revenue, cause us to prohibit the listing of certain items, or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. In addition, the law regarding the potential liability of an online auction service for the activities of its users is not clear. We cannot assure you that users of our websites will comply with our terms and conditions or with laws and regulations applicable to them and their transactions. It is possible that we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for any unlawful activities conducted by sellers or buyers. Any costs we incur as a result of any such allegations, or as a result of actual or alleged unlawful transactions using our marketplaces, or in our efforts to prevent any such transactions, may harm our opportunities for future revenue growth. In addition, any negative publicity we receive regarding any such transactions or allegations may damage our reputation, our ability to attract new sellers and buyers and our business. Certain categories of merchandise sold on our marketplaces are subject to government restrictions. We sell merchandise, such as scientific instruments, information technology equipment and aircraft parts, that is subject to export control and economic sanctions laws, among other laws, imposed by the United States and other governments. Such restrictions include the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, and economic sanctions and embargo laws administered by the Office of the Foreign Assets Control Regulations. These restrictions prohibit us from, among other things, selling property to (1) persons or entities that appear on lists of restricted or prohibited parties maintained by the United States or other governments or (2) countries, regimes, or nationals that are the target of applicable economic sanctions or other embargoes. In addition, for specified categories of property sold under our contracts with the DoD, we are required to (1) obtain an end-use certificate from the prospective buyer describing the nature of the buyer's business, describing the expected disposition and specific end-use of the property, and acknowledging the applicability of pertinent export control and economic sanctions laws and (2) confirm that each buyer has been cleared to purchase export-controlled items. 25 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs or be required to modify our business to comply with these requirements. If we are alleged to have violated any of these laws or regulations we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, whether or not true. Our business may be harmed if third parties misappropriate our clients' confidential information. We retain highly confidential information on behalf of our clients in our systems and databases. Although we maintain security features in our systems, our operations may be susceptible to hacker interception, break-ins and other disruptions. These disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our systems. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand our operations. If any compromise of our security were to occur, we may lose clients and our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed by the misappropriation of confidential client information. In addition, if there is any perception that we cannot protect our clients' confidential information, we may lose the ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients and our revenue could decline. If we fail to comply with increasing levels of regulation relating to privacy, our business could suffer harm. We are subject to increasing regulation at the federal, state and international levels relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. In addition, several states have proposed or enacted legislation to limit uses of personal information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. Data protection regulations and enforcement efforts may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. Such regulations, along with increased government or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing our business and require us to expend significant capital and other resources. Our failure to comply with these federal, state and international laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, adverse publicity and other costs could decrease our profitability. If one or more states successfully assert that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our merchandise or the merchandise of third parties that we offer for sale on our websites, our business could be harmed. We are currently required to pay sales taxes in all states for shipment of goods from our DoD contracts. We also pay sales or other similar taxes in respect of shipments of other goods into states in which we have a substantial presence. In addition, as we grow our business, any new operation in states in which we currently do not pay sales taxes could subject shipments into such states to state sales taxes under current or future laws. In October 2007, the federal government extended until November 2014 a ban on state and local governments' imposition of new taxes on Internet access or electronic commerce transactions. This ban does not prohibit federal, state or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules. Unless the ban is further extended, state and local governments may begin to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions upon the legislation's expiration. An increase in taxes may make electronic commerce transactions less attractive for merchants and businesses, which could result in a decrease in the level of demand for our services. 26 Table of Contents Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives resulted in a reversal of the Supreme Court's current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in states other than states in which we currently pay such taxes. A successful assertion by one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions that the sale of merchandise by us is subject to sales or other taxes, could subject us to material liabilities and increase our costs of doing business. To the extent that we pass such costs on to our clients, doing so could harm our business and decrease our revenue. Fraudulent activities involving our websites and disputes relating to transactions on our websites may cause us to lose clients and adversely affect our ability to grow our business. We are aware that other companies operating online auction or liquidation services have periodically received complaints of fraudulent activities of buyers or sellers on their websites, including disputes over the quality of goods and services, unauthorized use of credit card and bank account information and identity theft, potential breaches of system security, and infringement of third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names or other intellectual property rights. We may receive similar complaints if sellers or buyers trading in our marketplaces are alleged to have engaged in fraudulent or unlawful activity. In addition, we may suffer losses as a result of purchases paid for with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment. In the case of disputed transactions, we may not be able to require users of our services to fulfill their obligations to make payments or to deliver goods. We also may receive complaints from buyers about the quality of purchased goods, requests for reimbursement, or communications threatening or commencing legal actions against us. Negative publicity generated as a result of fraudulent conduct by third parties or the failure to satisfactorily settle disputes related to transactions on our websites could damage our reputation, cause us to lose clients and adversely affect our ability to grow our business. False or defamatory statements transmitted through our services could harm our reputation and affect our ability to attract clients. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is currently unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both the U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Our goWholesale.com website allows users to make comments regarding the online auction industry in general and other users and their merchandise in particular. Although all such comments are generated by users and not by us, we are aware that claims of defamation or other injury have been made against other companies operating auction services in the past and could be made in the future against us for comments made by users. If we are held liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service, we could be directly harmed and may be forced to implement measures to reduce our liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or discontinue certain service offerings, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation and affect our ability to attract clients. Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The current worldwide financial crisis has led to a rapid decline in the overall value of the stock market and increased market volatility. This market turmoil and other broad market and industry 27 Table of Contents factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Other factors that could cause fluctuation in our stock price may include: •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; •changes in financial estimates by us or by a securities analyst who covers our stock; •publication of research reports about our company or industry; •conditions or trends in our industry; •stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those whose business involves the Internet and e-commerce; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, strategic partnerships or divestitures; •announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements; •announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; •the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us, our clients or our industry; •additions or departures of key personnel; •sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or specific stockholders; and •general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets. Volatility in the market price of shares may prevent investors from being able to sell their shares of common stock at prices they view as attractive. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. Some provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that may enable our board of directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by you and other stockholders. These provisions include: •a staggered board of directors; •a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; •limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; •the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; •advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; and •the requirement that board vacancies be filled by a majority of our directors then in office. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable 