ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Healthcare-related legislation has significantly impacted our business, and future legislation and regulations may negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inpatient services business currently receives approximately 81% of its revenues from Medicare and Medicaid. The healthcare industry is experiencing a strong trend toward cost containment, as the government seeks to impose lower reimbursement and RUGs rates, limit the scope of covered services and negotiate reduced payment schedules with providers. These cost containment measures generally have resulted in a reduced rate of growth in the reimbursement for the services that we provide relative to the increase in our cost to provide such services. Prior reductions in governmental reimbursement rates contributed to our predecessor company’s subsidiaries’ bankruptcy filings under Chapter 11 of the United States Code on June 22, 2000. Additional reductions in reimbursement rates for our services may further negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement programs have limited, and are expected to continue to limit, payment increases under these programs. Also, the timing of payments made under the Medicare and Medicaid programs is subject to regulatory action and governmental budgetary constraints resulting in a risk that the time period between submission of claims and payment could increase. Further, within the statutory framework of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, a substantial number of areas are subject to administrative rulings and interpretations that may further affect payments. It is not possible to quantify fully the effect of legislative changes, the interpretation or administration of such legislation or other governmental initiatives on our business and the business of the customers served by our rehabilitation services business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the impact of any future healthcare legislation or regulation will not adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that payments under governmental and private third-party payor programs will be timely, will remain at levels similar to present levels or will, in the future, be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement pursuant to such programs. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected by the reimbursement process, which in the healthcare industry is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that revenue is recognized and the time that reimbursement amounts are settled. Any adverse impact of skilled nursing facility rate changes to the liquidity of our inpatient services segment, could require us to borrow in order to fund our working capital needs, and in turn, cause us to become more highly leveraged and further impact our results of operations and cash flows from increased interest expense. Our revenues could be affected by changes to the Medicare program. In February 2006, the DRA was signed into law. Included in the DRA is a provision that directed CMS to develop an exceptions process for medically necessary physical, speech and occupational therapy services for beneficiaries that exceed a $1,740 annual reimbursement cap. The provision establishes a 10-day exceptions request process. In connection with the DRA, on February 13, 2006 CMS issued three program transmittals instructing its contractors on implementing the exceptions process. Under the instructions, a two-tier process is established providing for automatic exceptions based upon diagnoses and patient condition, and a manual exceptions process for other claims that are not automatically exempt. These changes were retroactive to January 1, 2006. While initially there were delays in processing claims, most of the implementation issues were resolved. Generally, most nursing home therapy claims fell within the automatic exceptions group, and, therefore, we did not experience a disruption of services. However, the delayed communication and implementation of the exceptions process negatively impacted Medicare Part B therapy utilization during the three months ended March 31, 2006. There continues to be uncertainty regarding how the Medicare Part B therapy cap will be addressed in future reimbursement policy. CMS recently announced the proposed physician fee schedules and the implementation of the therapy caps effective January 1, 2007. The proposed rules suggest the therapy caps will increase from the current level of $1,740 to $1,780. On December 9, 2006, Congress passed legislation extending the existing exceptions process through December 31, 2007, removing a significant threat to our rehabilitation therapy business for the short term. No assurances can be made or given that Congress will extend the exceptions process beyond calendar year 2007, or enact other revisions. 19 Back to Index By law, Medicare reimbursement for physician and non-physician professional services (including Medicare Part B physical therapy, speech pathology and occupational therapy services) is based on fee schedules. On August 22, 2006, CMS published in the Federal Register the proposed calendar year 2007 physician and non-physician fee schedule rules. In an accompanying press statement, CMS indicated that it anticipated calendar year 2007 physician fee schedules would be reduced by 5.1% effective January 1, 2007. On December 9, 2006, Congress passed legislation that negated the rate reduction and established a 1.5% bonus incentive to providers who report on quality measures in 2007. Effective January 1, 2006, under the MMA, Medicaid coverage of prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries who are also eligible for Medicaid have been shifted to the Medicare program (Medicare Part D). These residents are referred to as “dual eligibles.” This change has affected a significant percentage of residents in our nursing facilities. The final regulations and subsequent specific sub-regulatory guidance specifically require the new prescription drug plans and Medicare Advantage Plans that offer prescription drug coverage to provide convenient access to long-term care pharmacies and to offer standard contracts to all long-term care pharmacies within the plans’ service areas that meet performance standards specified by CMS. Currently, under contract, Omnicare, Inc., through its wholly owned subsidiary, provides services required for our residents. Under Medicare Part D, reimbursement for such services is provided through such plans as the primary payor for prescription drugs. Effective January 1, 2006, all dual eligible participants were automatically assigned to PDPs. Our long-term care pharmacy provider, Omnicare, negotiates its payment terms directly with the PDPs. It is important to note that, in its 2007 Work Plan, the Office of Inspector General stated that it will focus on whether skilled nursing facilities are properly passing through any benefits they receive through contracts with PDPs to their beneficiaries. Implementation of the new prescription drug benefit has been challenging; however, our residents have not experienced a significant disruption in receiving their necessary medication. Given the scale of the conversion, and the voluntary nature of Medicare Part D enrollment for other than dually eligible residents, there were complex implementation issues. CMS has been responsive to issues as they have been identified and transmitted. Additionally, in a number of states, special provisions are being considered or implemented under the state Medicaid plans to safeguard individuals automatically enrolled in the new Medicare Part D. Because of concerns that the MMA shifts prescription drug coverage from Medicaid to Medicare through private plans, CMS extended its initial 30-day transition period for those persons transitioning to the Part D program to 90-days. This transition period expired on April 1, 2006. Identifying nursing home residents and communicating formulary and coverage decisions continues to be challenging. The second open enrollment for the Medicare Part D benefit began in mid-November, 2006 and will run through the end of the calendar year. Automatic plan selection changes may be required for some dual eligibles and low-income subsidized beneficiaries. There continues to be a risk that these changes and related issues with the implementation of Medicare Part D may disrupt pharmacy services to our facilities. Any such change or reduction in long-term care pharmacy services could create additional cost for us, reduce our ability to meet quality standards and disrupt service delivery to our residents. The MMA covers most prescription drugs, insulin and certain insulin supplies, and approved vaccines. However, certain drugs are excluded from coverage under the new Medicare benefit in Part D, including several drugs that are commonly prescribed for nursing home and other long-term care residents. A number of states announced that they will continue to cover these excluded drugs under their Medicaid plans, however, there remains the possibility that certain physician ordered medications may fall outside of the PDPs’ and/or Medicaid’s formularies thereby requiring us to bear the cost of these drugs. We have described only certain provisions of the MMA applicable to our business. There may be other provisions of the legislation that may impact our business by decreasing revenues or increasing operational expenses. The impact of this legislation depends upon a variety of factors, including patient mix and the implementing regulations. CMS continues to issue new regulations to implement the MMA, which we are in the process of reviewing. However, because of the broad scope and phased-implementation of key provisions in the MMA, we are not in a position to assess fully its impact on our business. 20 Back to Index Our revenues could be impacted by federal and state changes to Medicaid. Jointly financed by the federal and state governments, Medicaid is an essential part of the health coverage and financing system nationally and in every state. Combined federal and states’ Medicaid outlays are projected to approximate $347.0 billion in calendar year 2007 and account for nearly 15% of total national healthcare expenditures. Medicaid is the principal purchaser for approximately 45% of nursing home services purchased in the United States. Rapidly increasing Medicaid spending combined with slow state revenue growth and competing budgetary requirements has led many states to institute measures aimed at controlling spending growth. Historically, these budget pressures have translated into reductions in the rate of growth of state Medicaid spending. Budget constraints and other factors have caused some states to curb Medicaid reimbursement to nursing facilities, and states may continue to curb or delay payments to nursing facilities in the future. The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 granted the states greater flexibility in establishing Medicaid managed care programs without the need to obtain a federal waiver. Although these waiver programs generally exempted institutional care, including nursing facility services, these programs could ultimately change the Medicaid reimbursement system for long-term care. These changes could include changing reimbursement for pharmacy services from fee-for-service, or payment per procedure or service rendered, to a fixed amount per person utilizing managed care negotiated or capitated rates. In each of the major states where we provide services, we are working with trade groups, consultants and government officials to address responsibly the particular funding issues. Given that Medicaid outlays are a significant component of state budgets, we expect continuing cost containment pressures on Medicaid outlays for skilled nursing facilities in the states in which we operate, which could result in Medicaid rate adjustments that are below the average inflationary increase in our operating costs. States may be unable to continue to support financially growing Medicaid programs as currently structured and there is no assurance that federal assistance with the funding of these programs will continue. The Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 enacted a phase out of intergovernmental transfer transactions by states whereby states would artificially inflate the payments to certain public facilities to increase federal matching funds. This action may have had the effect of reducing federal support for a number of state Medicaid programs. The reduced federal payments may impact aggregate available funds requiring states to further contain payments to providers. We operate in several of the states that have experienced or will experience a contraction of federal matching funds. The President’s proposed fiscal 2007 federal budget recommended spending reductions for both Medicare and Medicaid. One of the specific changes advanced by the President is a request to phase-down the level of federal matching under Medicaid for provider assessments. Current regulations permit states to receive federally matched funds for up to 6% of aggregate outlays for state Medicaid nursing home services. On December 9, 2006, Congress passed legislation reducing the maximum federal matching to 5.5% of aggregate Medicaid outlays. This reduction in funding, which will become effective January 1, 2008, is expected to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The DRA reduced projected Medicaid outlays by $6.9 billion over five years. The President signed this legislation into law on February 8, 2006. Among the provisions of the final legislation were requirements that extend the Medicaid look-back period for asset transfers from three years to five years, a change in the manner that annuities are considered and a change in the date for calculating the look-back penalty from the date of transfer to the date that Medicaid nursing home services are delivered. It is our understanding that CMS will be issuing specific guidance regarding the changes in the asset transfer rules. The DRA also implemented new penalties and rule changes to deter asset transfers individuals make to become Medicaid eligible. These changes may affect the number of people potentially eligible for Medicaid funding. We are unable to predict what impact this provision of the DRA will have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, if any. Under the DRA, states may be allowed to reduce the benefits provided to certain Medicaid enrollees, which could affect the services that states contract for with us. On July 12, 2006, CMS issued interim final regulations implementing the requirement that Medicaid recipients must be able to show proof of citizenship. We are unable to predict the outcome of these potential changes and their impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, if any. Congress, during its fiscal year 2006, scaled back proposed Medicaid reductions through 2006. The final enactment is a compromise establishing a National Medicaid Commission authorized to make specific policy recommendations, while agreeing to defer Medicaid cuts during fiscal year 2006, and providing reconciliation instructions to Congress to make $10.0 billion in aggregate Medicaid reductions during fiscal years 2007 to 2011. Some of the ideas generated by the National Medicaid Commission were incorporated into the DRA. The National Medicaid Commission is mandated 21 Back to Index to deliver to the Congress a second report by the end of 2006 making specific recommendations for a comprehensive reform of the Medicaid program. These proposals may be considered in the coming 110th Congress. No predictions can be made as to the ultimate outcome of these reform proposals. We cannot predict the extent of the impact that such decrease, if any, in spending by the federal government will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry, and changes in regulations and violations of regulations may result in increased costs or sanctions, including loss of licensure and decertification. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state and, in some cases, local regulation with respect to, among other things, participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, licensure, certification and government reimbursement. For our eldercare centers, these regulations relate, among other things, to the adequacy of physical plant and equipment, qualifications of personnel, standards of care, government reimbursement and operational requirements. Compliance with these regulatory requirements, as interpreted and amended from time to time, can increase operating costs and thereby adversely affect the financial viability of our business. Because these regulations are amended from time to time and are subject to interpretation, we cannot predict when and to what extent liability may arise. Failure to comply with current or future regulatory requirements could also result in the imposition of various remedies including fines, restrictions on admission, denial of payment for all or new admissions, the revocation of licensure, decertification, imposition of temporary management or the closure of a facility or site of service. We are subject to periodic audits by the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which have various rights and remedies against us if they assert that we have overcharged the programs or failed to comply with program requirements. These rights and remedies may include requiring the repayment of any amounts alleged to be overpayments or in violation of program requirements, or making deductions from future amounts due to us. These programs may also impose fines, criminal penalties or program exclusions. Other third-party payor sources also reserve rights to conduct audits and make monetary adjustments in connection with or exclusive of audit activities. In the ordinary course of our business, we periodically receive notices of deficiencies for failure to comply with conditions of participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We review such notices and take appropriate corrective action. In these cases, we submit our plan to bring the center into compliance with regulations which must be accepted by the reviewing agency prior to its implementation. In some cases, the reviewing federal or state agency may take various adverse actions against a provider, including but not limited to: • the imposition of fines; • suspension of payments for new or all admissions to the center; and • in extreme circumstances, exclusion from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs and revocation of a center’s or service site’s license. These actions may adversely affect a provider’s ability to continue to operate, the ability to provide certain services and/or eligibility to participate in the Medicare or Medicaid programs or to receive payments from other payors. Certain of our centers have received notices that, as a result of alleged deficiencies, federal and/or state agencies were taking steps to impose remedies. Additionally, actions taken against one center or service site may subject other centers or service sites under common control or ownership to adverse remedies. We are also subject to federal and state laws that govern financial and other arrangements between healthcare providers. These laws often prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to induce the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation of any of these restrictions or prohibitions include loss of eligibility to participate in reimbursement programs and/or civil and criminal penalties. Furthermore, some states restrict certain business relationships between physicians and other providers of healthcare services. Many states prohibit business corporations from providing, or holding themselves out as providers of, medical care. From time to time, we may seek guidance as to the interpretation of these laws; however, there can be no assurance that such laws will ultimately be interpreted in a manner consistent with our practices. In recent years it has become more difficult for nursing facilities to maintain licensure and certification. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased costs in connection with maintaining our licenses and certifications as well as increased enforcement actions. Failure to provide quality resident care may result in civil and/or criminal fines and penalties. The operation of our eldercare centers is subject to federal and state laws prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers, including criminal provisions, which prohibit filing false claims or making false statements to receive payment or certification under Medicare or Medicaid, or failing to refund overpayments or improper payments. Violation of these criminal provisions is a felony punishable by imprisonment and/or fines. We may be subject to 22 Back to Index fines and treble damage claims if we violate the civil provisions that prohibit the knowing filing of a false claim or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment. State and federal governments are devoting increased attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. HIPAA and the Balanced Budget Act expanded the penalties for healthcare fraud, including broader provisions for the exclusion of providers from the Medicaid program. The DRA requires providers who make or receive over $5 million in payments from state health plans to establish policies and procedures detailing the Federal False Claims Act, state false claims acts (if applicable), state Whistleblower Protection Acts, and other state laws related to the reduction of fraud and abuse. This provision may require us to implement state-specific employee training based on these laws. Further, as a result of the DRA, certain states are contemplating the need for their own false claims acts which, if implemented, may impose stricter penalties than the federal statute and regulations. While we believe that our business practices are consistent with Medicare and Medicaid criteria, those criteria are often vague and subject to change and interpretation. Determinations of alleged fraud could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. HIPAA requires us to comply with standards for the internal use of identifiable health information and the sharing of such information with third parties, such as payors, business associates, residents and patients. The standards promulgated under HIPAA regulate the exchange of information in common healthcare transactions, the use of electronic signatures, the development of unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, the security and privacy of identifiable health information, and enforcement. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA health information practices provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on us. State laws and regulations could affect our ability to grow. Several states in which we operate our business, as well as states in which we may wish to operate in the future, have adopted certificate of need or similar laws that generally require that a state agency approve certain acquisitions and determine the need for certain bed additions, new services and capital expenditures. State approvals are generally issued for a specified maximum expenditure and require implementation of the proposal within a specified period of time. Failure to obtain the necessary state approval can result in the inability to provide the service, to operate the centers, to complete the acquisition, addition or other change, and can also result in the imposition of sanctions or adverse action on the center’s license and adverse reimbursement action. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain state approval for all future projects requiring such approval or that such approvals will be timely. Possible changes in the case mix of patients as well as payor mix and payment methodologies may significantly affect our profitability. The sources and amounts of our patient revenues will be determined by a number of factors, including licensed bed capacity and occupancy rates of our centers, the mix of patients and the rates of reimbursement among payors. Likewise, therapy services provided by our rehabilitation therapy services business will vary based upon payor and payment methodologies. Changes in the case mix of the patients as well as payor mix among private pay, Medicare and Medicaid will significantly affect our profitability. Particularly, any significant increase in our Medicaid population could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, especially if states operating these programs continue to limit, or more aggressively seek limits on, reimbursement rates. We face intense competition in our business. The healthcare industry is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of other organizations in providing healthcare services. Certain competing organizations have greater financial and other resources and may be more established in their respective communities than we are. Competing organizations may offer newer or different centers or services than us, including a variety of community based services, and may thereby attract patients or customers who are presently patients, customers or are otherwise receiving our services. Our inpatient services segment is capital intensive, requiring us to direct continually financial resources to the maintenance and enhancement of our physical plant and equipment. As of September 30, 2006, we wholly owned or leased 161 skilled nursing and assisted living centers. Our ability to maintain and enhance our physical plant and equipment in a suitable condition to meet regulatory standards, operate efficiently and remain competitive in our markets requires us to commit a substantial portion of our free cash flow to continued investment in our physical plant and equipment. Certain of our competitors may operate centers that are not as old as our centers, or may appear more modernized than our centers, and therefore may be more attractive to prospective customers. In addition, the cost to replace our existing centers through 23 Back to Index acquisition or construction is substantially higher than the carrying value of our centers. We are undertaking a process to allocate more aggressively capital spending within our owned and leased centers in an effort to address issues that arise in connection with an aging physical plant. If factors, including factors indicated in these “Risk Factors” and other factors beyond our control, render us unable to direct the necessary financial and human resources to the maintenance, upgrade and modernization of our physical plant and equipment, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted. An increase in insurance costs may adversely affect us, and we may be liable for losses not covered by or in excess of our insurance. We carry property, workers’ compensation insurance, general and professional liability coverage on our behalf and on behalf of our subsidiaries in amounts deemed adequate by management. However, there can be no assurance that any current or future claims will not exceed applicable insurance coverage. Health insurance premiums in the market rose sharply in recent years. Our business is labor intensive, and therefore health insurance costs represent a significant expense for us. In recent years, we have partially managed the increase in insurance premiums with changes in program offerings. Continuing increases substantially in excess of inflation could have a negative impact on our profitability, as further shifts in responsibility for these cost increases to the employee may not be possible. In addition, we are self-insured for a significant portion of our exposure for workers’ compensation insurance, general and professional liability claims and health insurance provided to our employees. Accordingly, we are liable for payments to be made. To the extent claims are greater than estimated, they could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We could experience significant increases in our operating costs due to continued intense competition for qualified staff, minimum staffing laws in the healthcare industry and potential labor strikes. We and our industry continue to experience shortages in qualified professional clinical staff. We compete with other healthcare providers and with non-healthcare providers for both professional and non-professional employees. As the demand for these services continually exceeds the supply of available and qualified staff, we and our competitors have been forced to offer more attractive wage and benefit packages to these professionals and to utilize outside contractors for these services at premium rates. Furthermore, the competitive arena for this shrinking labor market has created high turnover among clinical professional staff as many seek to take advantage of the supply of available positions offering new and more attractive wage and benefit packages. In addition to the wage pressures inherent in this environment, the cost of training new employees amid the high turnover rates has increased pressure on our operating margins. Lastly, increased attention to the quality of care provided in skilled nursing facilities has caused several states to mandate and other states to consider mandating minimum staffing laws that further increase the gap between demand for and supply of qualified individuals and lead to higher labor costs. While we have been able to retain the services of an adequate number of qualified personnel to staff our facilities appropriately and maintain our standards of quality care, there can be no assurance that continued shortages will not affect our ability to attract and maintain an adequate staff of qualified healthcare personnel in the future. A lack of qualified personnel at a facility could result in significant increases in labor costs and an increased reliance on expensive temporary professional staffing agencies at such facility or otherwise adversely affect operations at such facility. Any of these developments could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, certain of our centers have certified unions that have entered into collective bargaining agreements. If one or more of these centers experience a lock-out or strike it could create a disruption in our business and increase our operating costs. If we are unable to control operating costs and generate sufficient cash flow to meet operational and financial requirements, including servicing our indebtedness, our business operations may be adversely affected. Cost containment and lower reimbursement levels relative to inflationary increases in cost by third-party payors, including federal and state governments, have had a significant impact on the healthcare industry as a whole and on our cash flows. Our operating margins continue to be under pressure because of continuing regulatory requirements and scrutiny and growth in operating expenses, such as labor costs and insurance premiums. In 24 Back to Index addition, as a result of competitive pressures, our ability to maintain operating margins through price increases to private patients is limited. Our ability to make payments on our existing and future debt and to pay our expenses will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those disclosed in this section and prevailing economic, regulatory and other conditions beyond our control. The agreements that govern our financing agreements contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. The agreements and instruments that govern our financing arrangements contain various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios and restrict our ability to: • incur more debt; • pay dividends, purchase company stock or make other distributions; • make payments in respect of subordinated debt; • make certain investments; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • make acquisitions; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer or sell assets. Our ability to comply with these covenants is subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain the financial tests and ratios. Any failure by us to comply with and maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to, and the acceleration of the maturity of, and the termination of the commitments to make further extension of credit under, a substantial portion of our debt. If we were unable to repay debt to our senior lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. A significant portion of our business is concentrated in certain markets and the respective economic conditions or changes in the laws affecting our business in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. As of September 30, 2006, we receive approximately 80% of our inpatient services revenue from operations in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Massachusetts and West Virginia. The economic condition of these markets could affect the ability of our patients and third-party payors to reimburse us for our services through a reduction of disposable household income or the ultimate reduction of the tax base used to generate state funding of their respective Medicaid programs. An economic downturn, or changes in the laws affecting our business in these markets and in surrounding markets, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Realization of the tax benefit relating to our net operating loss carryforward is subject to numerous risks. We estimate our net operating loss carryforward is approximately $83.2 million at September 30, 2006 after giving effect to NCI’s consolidated federal tax return completed for the period ended September 30, 2004. However, such net operating loss carryforward may further need to be adjusted pending settlement of any federal tax audit of tax years ending on or before that date which could materially reduce, or even eliminate, our estimated net operating loss carryforward. The amount and timing of any realized tax benefit resulting from the utilization of the net operating loss carryforward is a function of future taxable income, multiple change of ownership limitations 25 Back to Index imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contractual limitations imposed by the tax sharing agreement with NCI, and the term of the carryforward period. Recent legislation and the increasing costs of being publicly owned are likely to impact our future financial position and results of operations. In connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are subject to rules requiring our management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, and further requiring our independent registered public accounting firm to attest similarly to such effectiveness. If we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Significant regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules and regulations promulgated as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, have increased, and in the future are likely to further increase, general and administrative costs. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market, and rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we have had to hire additional personnel and utilize additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, and may continue to require such additional resources. Moreover, in the rapidly changing regulatory environment in which we now operate, there is significant uncertainty as to what will be required to comply with many of the new rules and regulations. As a result, we may be required to spend substantially more than we currently estimate, and may need to divert resources from other activities, as we develop our compliance plans. New accounting pronouncements or new interpretations of existing standards could require us to make adjustments in our accounting policies that could affect our consolidated financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, or other accounting organizations or governmental entities issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that sometimes require us to change our accounting policies and procedures. Future pronouncements or interpretations could require us to change our policies or procedures and have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. Implementation of new information systems could negatively affect us. We are in the process of implementing certain new information systems to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business. Implementation of new systems carries risks such as project cost overruns and business interruptions. If we experience a material business interruption as a result of the implementation of new information systems or are unable to obtain the projected benefits of new systems, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may make acquisitions that could subject us to a number of operating risks. We have made and may make additional acquisitions of, investments in, and strategic alliances with complementary businesses utilizing cash or debt financing to enable us to capitalize on our position in the geographic markets in which we operate and to expand our businesses geographically. Implementation of this strategy entails a number of risks, including: • inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from our existing operations; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of an acquired business or in realizing projected revenue synergies, efficiencies and cost savings; and • increase in our indebtedness and a limitation on our ability to access additional capital when needed. Certain changes may be necessary to integrate the acquired businesses into our operations, to assimilate new employees and to implement reporting, monitoring, compliance and forecasting policies and procedures. Provisions in Pennsylvania law and our corporate documents could delay or prevent a change in control. As a Pennsylvania corporation, we are governed by the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, as amended, referred to as “Pennsylvania corporation law.” Pennsylvania corporation law provides that the board of directors of a corporation in discharging its duties, including its response to a potential merger or takeover, may consider the effect of any action upon employees, shareholders, suppliers, patients, customers and creditors of the 26 Back to Index corporation, as well as upon communities in which offices or other establishments of the corporation are located and all other pertinent factors. In addition, under Pennsylvania corporation law, subject to certain exceptions, a business combination between us and a beneficial owner of more than 20% of our common stock may be accomplished only if certain conditions are met. Our articles of incorporation contain certain provisions that may affect a person’s decision to initiate a takeover of us, including the following provisions: • a classified board of directors; • a provision confirming that we are subject to the restrictions in the Pennsylvania corporation law on certain business combinations involving us that are not approved by the board or directors; and • the authority to issue preferred stock with rights to be designated by the board of directors. Our articles of incorporation also confirm that we are subject to the provisions of Pennsylvania corporation law that deny our shareholders the right to act by partial written consent without a meeting. Additionally, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, which makes it difficult for any person or group to acquire a significant interest in our common stock without advance approval of our board of directors. The overall effect of the foregoing provisions may be to deter a future tender offer or other offers to acquire us or our shares. Shareholders might view such an offer to be in their best interest if the offer includes a substantial premium over the market price of the common stock at that time. In addition, these provisions may assist our management in retaining its position and place it in a better position to resist changes that the shareholders may want to make if dissatisfied with the conduct of our business. Our future profitability could be impacted by our ability to achieve certain performance improvement objectives in our rehabilitation therapy services segment. Beginning in fiscal 2004 and throughout fiscal 2006, we and the rehabilitation therapy services sector have experienced a shortage of qualified rehabilitation therapists. As the demand for these services continues to exceed the supply of available therapists, we and our competitors have been forced to offer more attractive wage and benefit packages to these professionals while utilizing outside contractors for these services at premium rates. We have undertaken a series of actions intended to improve the operating performance of our rehabilitation therapy services segment. If we are unsuccessful in achieving our performance improvement objectives, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Portions of our historical financial information and our pro forma financial information may not be representative of our results as a separate company. Prior to our spin-off on December 1, 2003, our operations were conducted as part of the consolidated NCI entity and not as a stand-alone entity. Accordingly, the financial information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report as of dates prior to the spin-off may not reflect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows that would have been achieved had our company been operated independently during such periods and as of such dates presented. Prior to December 1, 2003, costs related to our corporate functions, including legal support, treasury administration, insurance administration, human resource management, internal audit, corporate accounting and income tax administration, which are not directly and solely related to our operations, were allocated to us prior to the spin-off based upon various methodologies deemed reasonable by management. Prior to December 1, 2003, certain assets and liabilities relating to our business were managed and controlled by NCI on a centralized basis. Such assets and liabilities reflected in our financial statements as of dates prior to December 1, 2003 were also allocated to us based upon various methodologies deemed reasonable by management. Although our management believes that the methods used to allocate and estimate such assets, liabilities and expenses are reasonable, there can be no assurance that such financial information is comparable to financial information for periods after the December 1, 2003 spin-off. 27 Back to Index We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to NCI, or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from NCI. Under the terms of a separation and distribution agreement, we and NCI each agreed to indemnify each other from and after the distribution with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that are retained by our respective companies. These indemnification obligations could be significant, and we cannot presently determine the amount of indemnification obligations for which we will be liable or for which we will seek payment from NCI. Our ability to satisfy these indemnities, if we are called upon to do so, will depend upon our future financial performance. Similarly, NCI’s ability to satisfy any such obligations to us will depend on NCI’s future financial performance. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to satisfy any substantial indemnification obligations to NCI. We also cannot assure you that if NCI is required to indemnify us for any substantial obligations, NCI will have the ability to satisfy those obligations. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 28 Back to Index ITEM 