Item 1A. Risk Factors Operation in a Highly Competitive Industry and Market Area May Limit KNBT’s Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In KNBT’s market area, there is intense competition with more than 50 other banks, savings associations, mortgage-banking companies, money market and other mutual funds, brokerage firms and insurance companies. Many of these competitors, the regional and national institutions in particular, have a greater asset base and capital than KNBT. This allows them to enjoy advantages, including greater financial resources, a wider geographic presence, more aggressive marketing campaigns and better brand recognition. This competition could reduce net income by decreasing the number and size of loans that the Bank originates and the interest rate charged on these loans. In addition, if the Bank experiences an inability to recruit and retain skilled lending officers it could pose a significant barrier to retaining and growing its customer base. Also, competitors may offer higher interest rates, which could decrease the deposits the Bank attracts or require an increase in rates to retain existing deposits. Increased deposit competition could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to generate funds necessary for lending operations. Governmental Regulation and Legislation Could Limit KNBT’s Future Growth. KNBT and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and examination by certain state and federal agencies including the Pennsylvania State Department of Banking and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage and intended to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the government deposit insurance funds. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on the Bank and KNBT’s operations. An Economic Downturn Could Adversely Affect KNBT’s Financial Results. The Bank’s operations are concentrated in eastern Pennsylvania. The Bank’s financial results may correlate to the economic conditions as a result of this geographic concentration. A general decline or deterioration in economic conditions in this market area may adversely affect the quality of the loan portfolio and the demand for products and services. Specifically, credit risk and product demand risk would most likely become more apparent in an economic downturn. Other decreases generally associated with a downturn, such as consumer confidence, real estate values and interest rates may combine to make lending less profitable. KNBT’s Low Return on Equity May Cause Its Common Stock Price to Decline. Net income divided by average equity, known as “return on equity,” is a ratio many investors use to analyze the performance of a financial institution. KNBT’s return on equity for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 6.63%, 5.37% and 4.57%, respectively. These returns are lower than returns on equity for many comparable publicly traded bank holding companies. KNBT completed its conversion from mutual-to-stock form in October 2003 and received net proceeds from the stock offering of $196.2 million, resulting in an equity to assets ratio of 20.05%. Although KNBT’s management has developed capital management strategies designed to effectively utilize this capital, KNBT expects its return on equity to remain relatively low until it is able to further deploy its capital by increasing the amount of its interest-earning assets, thereby increasing net interest income, as well as by increasing the level of its non-interest income. 31 Growth from Past and Potential Acquisitions May Limit KNBT’S Ability to Successfully Expand Operations and may Dilute Stockholder Value. KNBT has experienced substantial growth from acquisitions. At December 31, 2006, KNBT had total assets of $2.9 billion compared to approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 2003. KNBT continues to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result of this continued effort, merger or acquisition discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and future transactions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. In general, acquisitions involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and thus may cause some dilution of KNBT’s tangible book value and net income per common share. In addition, post-merger or acquisition effects include a variety of possibilities. Failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings or increases in product or geographic presence could have a material adverse effect on KNBT’s financial condition, result of operations and future growth. Future expansion will also depend on the ability of its officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. KNBT may not be able to successfully implement necessary improvements to its management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner. Thus, KNBT cannot assure that its growth strategy will not place a strain on its administrative and operational infrastructure or require KNBT to incur additional expenditures beyond current projects to support future growth. KNBT’s future profitability will depend in part on its continued ability to grow. KNBT is Subject to Increased Lending Risk Within Its Commercial Portfolio. There are inherent risks associated with making any loan. The risks related to lending activities include nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in economic conditions. Loan underwriting and application approval process, monitoring of large loan relationships and periodic reviews by third party specialists, are all done in attempt to manage credit risk. Although KNBT cannot be assured such approval and monitoring will always reduce loan credit risk. In addition, KNBT’s commercial loan portfolio gives exposure to increased credit risk. At December 31, 2006, KNBT had $534.4 million in commercial (real estate and non-real estate) loans compared to approximately $195.5 million at December 31, 2003. KNBT strategy has been to grow its commercial portfolio and plans to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. However, these loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of a business or the underlying property. In addition, these loans are typically larger than single-family residential mortgage loans and consumer loans and the deterioration of one or more of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans or non-performing assets. As a result, there would be a reduction in interest income recognized on loans and may require KNBT to increase the provision for losses on loans, both of which reduces net income. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on KNBT’s financial condition and result of operations. Changes in the Value of Goodwill Could Reduce Our Earnings. KNBT is required, by generally accepted accounting principles, to test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. At December 31, 2006, KNBT’s goodwill totaled $105.9 million. As of December 31, 2006, if goodwill were fully impaired and KNBT was required to charge-off all of its goodwill, the pro forma reduction to shareholders' equity and book value would be approximately $4.95 per share. 32 Violation of Information Security Could Negatively Impact KNBT’s Earnings. KNBT increasingly depends on data processing, communication and information exchange on various computing platforms, networks and over the Internet. A variety of safeguards have been implemented although KNBT cannot be certain all systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack and violation from both insiders and outsiders. KNBT also places reliance on several third party processors for data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information could be lost or misappropriated, which would result in financial loss and unexpected expenses, damages to its customers and negative publicity. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, which would adversely affect earnings and future profitability. Failure Within the Internal Control Environment. Management regularly reviews and updates KNBT’s internal controls, disclosure controls and corporate governance policies and procedures. This system of controls is based on certain assumptions and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Therefore any failure or circumvention of KNBT’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. Market Rates of Interest Could Hurt Profitability. KNBT’s earnings and cash flow are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed money. These activities are subject to interest rate risk and they are KNBT’s traditional business services. Thus KNBT’s financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond KNBT’s control, including policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”). Between June 30, 2004 and December 31, 2006, the FRB increased its federal funds rate seventeen times from a level of 1.25% at June 30, 2004 to 5.25% at December 31, 2006. The yield curve (which reflects the difference between short-term and long-term obligations) has flattened during this same period as the spread between the two-year and ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations went from 1.91% at June 30, 2004 to 0.11% at December 31, 2006. The effect of these changes has caused a flat or slightly inverted yield curve which has resulted in a decline in the Company’s net interest margin. Should these conditions continue, they may offset a portion, or all gains in net interest income generated from asset growth, which may cause a decrease in KNBT’s interest rate spread and net interest margin. In addition, KNBT is subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. If interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than interest rates earned on loans and other investments or visa versa, KNBT’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. This could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. The nature, timing and effect of any future changes in interest rates on KNBT and future results of operations are not predictable. Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts More Difficult to Achieve KNBT’s Board of Directors has no current intention to sell control of KNBT. Investors may want a change of control to occur because, among other reasons, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing market price of KNBT’s common stock. Provisions in KNBT’s corporate documents and in Pennsylvania corporate law, as well as certain federal regulations, may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that its board of directors opposes. As a result, KNBT shareholders may not have an opportunity to participate in such a transaction, and the trading price of KNBT’s common stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. Provisions in KNBT’s articles of incorporation and bylaws provide, among other things, 33 • that no person can acquire or offer to acquire more than 10% of the issued and outstanding shares of any class of equity securities of KNBT; • that any merger or similar transaction be approved by a super-majority vote of shareholders unless it has previously been approved by at least two-thirds of its directors; • that its board of directors is divided into classes with staggered three year terms; • that special meetings of shareholders may be called only by the board of directors of KNBT; • that shareholders generally must provide advance notice of shareholder proposals and director nominations and provide specified related information; and • that the board of directors of KNBT has the authority to issue shares of authorized but unissued common stock and preferred stock and to establish the terms of any one or more series of preferred stock, including voting rights, without additional shareholder approval. Provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law applicable to KNBT as well as its articles of incorporation provide, among other things, that it may not engage in a business combination with an “interested shareholder” (generally a holder of 20% or more of its voting stock) during the five-year period after the interested shareholder became an interested shareholder except under certain specified circumstances. The Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law also provides for the ability of shareholders to object to the acquisition by a person or group of persons acting in concert of 20% or more of its outstanding voting securities, except under certain specified circumstances, and to demand that they be paid a cash payment for the fair value of their shares from the controlling person or group. In addition, there are various regulatory restrictions under applicable federal and state banking law on takeovers of KNBT and the Bank. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 