Item 1A. Risk Factors. Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other "forward looking statements". Such forward looking statements include any projections or estimates made by us and our management in connection with our business operations. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumption or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other "forward looking statements" involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other "forward looking statements". Risks Associated with our Business and Industry Lack of cash flow which may affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Since inception, our company has had negative cash flows from operations. Our business plan calls for continued research and development of our products and expansion of our market share. We will require additional financing to finance working capital and pay for operating expenses and capital requirements until we achieve a positive cash flow. However, there is no assurance that actual cash requirements will not exceed our estimates. In particular, additional capital may be required in the event that: we incur delays and additional expenses as a result of technology failure; we are unable to create a substantial market for our products; or we incur any significant unanticipated expenses. The occurrence of any of the aforementioned events could adversely affect our ability to meet our proposed business plans. We depend on a mix of revenues and outside capital to pay for the continued development of our technology and the marketing of our products. Such outside capital may include the sale of additional stock and/or commercial borrowing. There can be no assurance that capital will continue to be available if necessary to meet these continuing development costs or, if the capital is available, that it will be on terms acceptable to us. Disruptions in financial markets and challenging economic conditions have and may continue to affect our ability to raise capital. The issuance of additional equity securities by us would result in a dilution, possibly a significant dilution, in the equity interests of our current stockholders. Obtaining commercial loans, assuming those loans would be available, will increase our liabilities and future cash commitments. 13 If we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts and on terms deemed acceptable to us, our business and future success may be adversely affected and, as indicated in the audit report included in this annual report for the year ended April 30, 2010, raise substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements included in this annual report do not include any adjustments to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. The current economic environment has adversely affected business spending patterns, which has and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. The disruptions in the financial markets and challenging economic conditions have adversely affected the United States and world economy, and in particular, reduced consumer spending and reduced spending by businesses. Turmoil in global credit markets and recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs are and may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Our operating results in one or more segments have been and may continue to be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. The challenges we have seen in the United States have expanded overseas. If our customers continue to delay or cancel spending on their IT infrastructure, that decision could result in further reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles and increased price competition. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore spending to previous levels. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers. Businesses that are good credit risks at the time of sale may become bad credit risks over time. In times of economic recession, the number of our customers who default on payments owed to us tends to increase. If we fail to adequately assess and monitor our credit risks, we could experience longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and higher bad debt expense. Additionally, to the degree that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. A decline in the price of our common stock could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our operations. A prolonged decline in the price of our common stock could result in a reduction in the liquidity of our common stock and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Because our operations have been partially financed through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of our common stock could be especially detrimental to our liquidity and our continued operations. Any reduction in our ability to raise equity capital in the future would force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and would have a significant negative effect on our business plans and operations, including our ability to develop new products and continue our current operations. If our stock price declines, there can be no assurance that we can raise additional capital or generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations. The majority of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, with the result that it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or some of our directors or officers. 14 The majority of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons' assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or our officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Consequently, investors may be effectively prevented from pursuing remedies under United States federal securities laws against some of our directors or officers. We may in the future be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the continued viability of our company. We may be unaware of filed patent applications and issued patents that could relate to our products and services. Intellectual property litigation, if determined against us, could: result in the loss of a substantial number of existing customers or prohibit the acquisition of new customers; cause us to lose access to key distribution channels; result in substantial employee layoffs or risk the permanent loss of highly-valued employees; materially and adversely affect our brand in the market place and cause a substantial loss of goodwill; cause our stock price to decline significantly; and lead to the bankruptcy or liquidation of our company. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial royalties, licensing fees or damages. The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims. We could lose our competitive advantages if we are not able to protect any proprietary technology and intellectual property rights against infringement, and any related litigation could be time-consuming and costly. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree on our proprietary technology incorporated in our software. If any of our competitors' copies or otherwise gains access to our proprietary technology or develops similar technologies independently, we would not be able to compete as effectively. We also consider our family of registered and unregistered trademarks including CounterPath, Bria, eyeBeam and X-Lite, invaluable to our ability to continue to develop and maintain the goodwill and recognition associated with our brand. The measures we take to protect the proprietary technology software, and other intellectual property rights, which presently are based upon a combination of patents, patents pending, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, may not be adequate to prevent their unauthorized use. Further, the laws of foreign countries may provide inadequate protection of such intellectual property rights. We may need to bring legal claims to enforce or protect such intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources. In addition, notwithstanding any rights we have secured in our intellectual property, other persons may bring claims against us that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights, including claims based upon the content we license from third parties or claims that our intellectual property right interests are not valid. Any claims against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend or litigate, divert our attention and resources, result in the loss of goodwill associated with our service marks or require us to make changes to our website or other of our technologies. 15 Our products may become obsolete and unmarketable if we are unable to respond adequately to rapidly changing technology and customer demands. Our industry is characterized by rapid changes in technology and customer demands. As a result, our products may quickly become obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to technological advances, anticipate customer demands, develop new products and enhance our current products on a timely and cost-effective basis. Further, our products must remain competitive with those of other companies with substantially greater resources. We may experience technical or other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products or enhanced versions of existing products. Also, we may not be able to adapt new or enhanced services to emerging industry standards, and our new products may not be favorably received. Unless we can establish market acceptance of our current products, our potential revenues may be significantly reduced. We expect that a substantial portion of our future revenue will be derived from the sale of our software products. We expect that these product offerings and their extensions and derivatives will account for a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Broad market acceptance of our software products is, therefore, critical to our future success and our ability to continue to generate revenues. Failure to achieve broad market acceptance of our software products as a result of competition, technological change, or otherwise, would significantly harm our business. Our future financial performance will depend primarily on the continued market acceptance of our current software product offerings and on the development, introduction and market acceptance of any future enhancements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in marketing our current product offerings or any new product offerings, applications or enhancements, and any failure to do so would significantly harm our business. We face larger and better-financed competitors, which may affect our ability to operate our business and achieve profitability. Management is aware of similar products which compete directly with our products and some of the companies developing these similar products are larger and better-financed than us and may develop products superior to those of our company. Such competition will potentially affect our chances of achieving profitability and ultimately adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Any prolonged activity in respect of the integration of the recently acquired businesses with our business could be time consuming and costly and adversely affect our financial results and stock price. We completed the acquisition of NewHeights Software Corporation, a private Canada corporation, FirstHand Technologies Inc., a private Ontario corporation, and BridgePort Networks, Inc., a private Delaware corporation. The integration of the business of each respective company with our business has been, and will continue to be, a time consuming and expensive process. Any prolonged activity in respect of the integration of the acquired businesses with our business could divert financial and other resources from our planned operations, which could negatively affect our results of operations, lower employee morale, and result in customers cancelling existing orders or choosing not to place new ones. In addition, the combined operations of our company and the acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits. If the anticipated benefits of the combined operations are not realized or do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Risks Associated with our Common Stock If we issue additional shares of common stock in the future this may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We are authorized to issue 83,076,900 shares of common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock up to the authorized capital stated in the certificate of incorporation. Our board of directors may choose to issue some or all of such shares to acquire one or more businesses or to provide additional financing in the future. The issuance of any such shares may result in a reduction of the book value or market price of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If we do issue any such additional shares, such issuance will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other stockholders. Further, any such issuance may result in a change of control of our corporation. 16 Penny stock rules will limit the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, has adopted sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and/or sell shares of our common stock. In addition to the “penny stock” rules described above, the FINRA has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer's financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for its shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. Item 