ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors describe many potential occurrences that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We employ a number of strategies designed to counteract these potential occurrences which we describe under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. General Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to implement our new business strategy profitably. We plan to return to profitability by implementing new business strategies including investment in loans or mortgage-backed securities in both domestic and non-U.S. markets and pursuing fee-based asset management engagements. For our new business strategies to succeed, we need to identify appropriate opportunities where we can use our expertise in managing investments collateralized by residential real estate. These strategies will entail establishing relationships and, for some of these opportunities, we would need additional capital available to invest in order to support the implementation of the strategies. If we are unable to find sufficient opportunities or do not have sufficient capital to invest, we may be unable to implement our business strategy profitably. Even if we are able to stabilize our business and to resume purchasing new investments, we might not be able to purchase residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments that meet our investment criteria or at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In accordance with our growth strategy, once we stabilize our business, we plan to resume purchasing mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. A significant portion of our anticipated future net income will depend on our ability to acquire residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. Intense competition exists for the acquisition of mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments. Our competitors for these types of investments include REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies and mutual funds, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we were not able to acquire a sufficient amount of residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. The current dislocations in the sub-prime mortgage sector and the current weakness in the broader mortgage market have adversely affected our business and could result in further increases in our borrowing costs, reductions in our liquidity and reductions in the value of our investment portfolio. Although our direct exposure to sub-prime mortgages is limited, the current dislocations in the sub-prime mortgage sector and the current disruption in the broader mortgage market have adversely affected our ability to obtain funding for our whole loan purchases and our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and have caused some of our counterparties to be unwilling or unable to provide us with financing on even our highest quality AAA-rated mortgage-backed securities. These financing trends have increased our financing costs and reduced our liquidity. In addition, our liquidity has been adversely affected by margin calls under our repurchase agreements. Our repurchase agreements allow the counterparty, to varying degrees, to revalue the collateral to values that the lender considers to be appropriate market value. If a counterparty determines that the value of its collateral has decreased, the counterparty may initiate a margin call requiring us to post additional collateral or cash to cover the decrease. The current market dislocation has also negatively impacted the marketability of our whole loans and mortgage-backed securities and, due to our need for additional liquidity and to repay outstanding borrowings, we have had to sell some of our whole loans and most of our mortgage-backed securities at depressed prices. We cannot predict how long this market dislocation will last or if further dislocation will occur in the future. The continuation of the current market environment or further disruptions in the market could further increase our borrowing costs, further reduce our liquidity and further reduce the value of our investment portfolio. Our investment strategies employ a significant amount of leverage. Our investment strategies generally employ a significant amount of leverage. Our financing arrangements, including our repurchase agreements, warehouse financing, debt securities and other types of borrowings, and their related hedging instruments, contain operating and financial covenants with which we must comply on a continuing basis. Our failure to comply with these 17 Table of Contents operating and financial covenants could result in the declaration of default, cancellation or non-renewal of one or more of our financing or hedging arrangements. We manage the levels of the financing liabilities funding our portfolios based on recourse leverage. We generally seek to maintain an overall borrowing recourse leverage of less than ten times the amount of our equity and long-term debt. Our recourse leverage ratio as of December 31, 2007 exceeded our guidelines because of the significant decline in the fair value of our mortgage-backed securities. We actively manage our capital efficiency through our liability structure, including the non-recourse mortgage-backed notes issued to finance our securitized loans held for investment, in order to manage our liquidity and interest rate related risks. Leverage also amplifies the potential severity of the other risks discussed in these “Risk Factors”. Interest rate mismatches between residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own and borrowings we have used to acquire these assets may adversely affect our results of operations. The interest rate repricing terms of our outstanding borrowings may differ from the interest rate repricing terms of our assets. As a result, during a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in, or elimination of, our net income or incur a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase faster than the yields on our assets. Conversely, during a period of declining interest rates and accompanying higher prepayment activity, we could experience a decrease in, or elimination of, our net income or generate a net loss as a result of higher premium amortization expense because the interest we receive on our assets may decrease more quickly than the interest we pay on our borrowings. Our use of certain types of financing may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements and warehouse financing may qualify for a treatment under the bankruptcy code that could give our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, this treatment of repurchase agreements and warehouse financing under the bankruptcy code may make it more difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders files for bankruptcy. Thus, our use of repurchase agreements and warehouse financing exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by us or any of our lenders. The residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold are subject to illiquidity, which might prevent us from selling them at reasonable prices should we find it necessary or believe it is advisable to sell them. From time to time, residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities experience periods of illiquidity. A period of illiquidity might result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold at advantageous times and prices during periods of illiquidity which could increase our costs and reduce our book value. Periods of illiquidity could also adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Many of our investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. The securities that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. A majority of the mortgage-backed securities that we hold were acquired in private, unregistered transactions and are therefore subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Furthermore, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a business entity to the extent that we have or could be attributed with material non-public information regarding such business entity. 18 Table of Contents Performance of our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are subject to the overall health of the U.S. economy, and a national or regional economic slowdown could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. The health of the U.S. residential mortgage market correlates with the overall health of the U.S. economy. An overall decline in the U.S. economy could cause a significant decrease in the values of mortgaged properties throughout the U.S. This decrease, in turn, could increase the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure on our residential mortgage loans and on the residential mortgage loans underlying our mortgage-backed securities, and could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, our financing is subject to credit risk of the counterparties in our financing transactions. Our inability to obtain a significant amount of financing through these sources would adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Our stockholders’ equity, or book value, is volatile. The fair values of the residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and hedging instruments that we hold are subject to daily fluctuations in market pricing resulting from changes in a number of factors, including interest rates, yield spreads and credit quality. We carry most of our mortgage-backed securities as “available-for-sale” and flow any changes in their fair value through the “other comprehensive income or loss” portion of stockholders’ equity on our balance sheet or statement of operations depending on our expectations of the recoverability of our losses on our securities. The daily fluctuations in market pricing of these mortgage-backed securities, and the corresponding effect of these fluctuations on our stockholders’ equity, creates volatility in our stockholders’ equity and book value. Hedging instruments are marked-to-market through our statement of operations. The daily fluctuation in market pricing of our hedging instruments, and the corresponding flow of these fluctuations through our statement of operations, may create volatility in our stockholders’ equity, or book value. Our residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments are subject to the risks of delinquency, foreclosure and credit loss. Our risk of loss is dependent upon the performance of the residential mortgage loans that we own, as well as upon the performance of the residential mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities that we own. All of our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are secured by underlying real property interests. We target prime quality residential mortgage loans with specific characteristics for our portfolio, including Alt-A documentation, which is considered non-conforming and may result in higher credit risks. Although we hold first lien positions on all of the mortgage-backed loans in our portfolio, borrowers may acquire a second lien against the underlying collateral, creating a higher risk of delinquency, foreclosure and losses. To the extent that the value of the property underlying our residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities decreases, our security could be impaired and we could expect greater credit losses. A substantial deterioration in the financial strength of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or other corporate guarantors of the mortgage-backed securities that we own could increase our exposure to future delinquencies, foreclosures or credit losses and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We own subordinated mortgage-backed securities that are structured to absorb a disproportionate amount of any credit losses on the underlying residential mortgage loans. We own subordinated mortgage-backed securities that have credit ratings below AAA. These subordinated mortgage-backed securities are structured to absorb a disproportionate share of the losses from their underlying residential mortgage loans and expose us to high levels of volatility in net interest income, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, credit risk and market pricing volatility. 19 Table of Contents We own some mortgage-backed securities that are backed by mid-prime or sub-prime residential mortgage loans which are subject to higher delinquency, foreclosure and credit loss rates than the prime residential mortgage loans we typically purchase. Mid-prime and sub-prime residential mortgage loans are typically made to borrowers who have poor or limited credit histories and who, as a result, do not qualify for traditional mortgage products. Because of their poor or limited credit histories, mid-prime and sub-prime borrowers have a substantially higher rate of delinquencies and foreclosure and loss rates than prime credit quality borrowers. Our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities have material geographic concentrations. Our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities have material geographic concentrations. The residential mortgage loans and the residential mortgage loans underlying our mortgage-backed securities that we own related to properties located in California, Florida, Arizona, Virginia and Nevada constitute a material portion of our assets. Our delinquency, foreclosure and credit losses over time may be exacerbated by this geographic concentration which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We face the risk of greater than projected prepayment rates of the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own. The principal and interest payments that we receive from the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own are generally funded by the payments that borrowers make in accordance with the amortization schedules of their residential mortgage loans. When borrowers prepay their residential mortgage loans more quickly than we projected, we receive principal cash flows from our investments more quickly than we anticipated. Greater than projected prepayment rates can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates decline and decrease when interest rates rise. Prepayment rates may also be affected by other factors, including the condition of the housing and financial markets, the overall economy, residential mortgage loan interest rates currently available to borrowers in the market and the ability of borrowers to refinance their mortgages. We amortize any premiums or accrete discounts related to the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own through our results of operations over their expected terms. The amortization of a premium through our statement of operations reduces our interest income, while the accretion of a discount through our statement of operations increases our interest income. The expected terms for residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are a function of the prepayment rates for the residential mortgage loans or the residential mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities. If residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we purchased at a premium are subsequently prepaid in whole or in part more quickly than we anticipated, we are then required to amortize their respective premiums more quickly, which would decrease our net interest income and adversely impact our results of operations. Conversely, if residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we purchased at a discount are subsequently prepaid in whole or in part more slowly than we anticipated, we are then required to accrete their respective discounts more slowly, which could decrease our net interest income and adversely impact our results of operations. Our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are subject to interest rate caps and payment caps with resets. The residential mortgage loans that we hold directly and the mortgage-backed securities collateralized by the residential mortgage loans that we own may be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount that the interest rate on a mortgage loan can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount that the interest rate on a mortgage loan can increase during the life of the loan. The periodic adjustments to the interest rates of the residential mortgage loans that we hold directly and that underlie our mortgage-backed securities, known as resets, are based on changes in an objective benchmark interest rate index, such as the U.S. Treasury index or LIBOR. During a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while interest rate caps and delayed resets could limit the increases in the yields we receive on the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold. Further, some of the residential mortgage loans and mortgages underlying the mortgage-backed securities we hold may be subject to periodic interest rate payment caps that could result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the outstanding principal. As a result, we may receive less cash income on the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents A significant portion of the mortgages we hold permit negative amortization. Negative amortization can increase our overall risk. We hold certain mortgages and certain mortgages collateralizing mortgage-backed securities that permit negative amortization. A negative amortization provision in a mortgage permits the borrower to defer payment of a portion of the monthly interest accrued on the mortgage and to add the deferred interest amount to the principal balance of the mortgage. As a result, during periods of negative amortization the principal balances of negatively amortizing mortgages increase and their weighted-average lives extend. When a mortgage or a mortgage collateralizing a mortgage-backed security experiences negative amortization, we continue to recognize interest income on the mortgage or mortgage-backed security even though we are not receiving cash interest in an amount equal to the deferred portion of the interest income. Unless we receive other sources of cash flow from these loans, such as principal repayment, we could experience negative cash flow. This negative cash flow could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Securitization structures allocate the principal payments and prepayments on mortgage loans, including loans with negative amortization features. To date, prepayments on our mortgage loans with negative amortization have been sufficient to offset negative amortization such that all our securitization structures have made all their required payments to bondholders. In addition, when a mortgage experiences negative amortization, the principal balance of the mortgage increases while the underlying market value of the related mortgaged property can remain flat or decrease. In such cases, the then current loan-to-value ratio of the negatively-amortizing mortgage increases. Increasing current loan-to-value ratios on mortgages correspondingly increase the likelihood and severity of potential credit losses related to those mortgages. Our mortgage loans generally can experience negative amortization to a maximum amount of 110-125% of the original mortgage loan balance. As a result, given the relatively low average loan-to-value of 75.9% and effective loan-to-value ratio of 71.8% on our portfolio which includes the additional protection provided by mortgage insurance as of December 31, 2007, we believe that our portfolio would still have a significant homeowners’ equity cushion even if all negatively-amortizing loans reached their maximum permitted amount of negative amortization. To the extent a mortgage experiences negative amortization such that its loan-to-value ratio exceeds the fair market value of the real estate securing the mortgage at the time we purchased the mortgage, that mortgage will no longer constitute a qualifying asset for the test we are required to meet under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the 1940 Act. If we fail to satisfy the test, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business in accordance with our operating policies. The representations and warranties that we have made as part of our securitizations may subject us to liability. We have made representations and warranties regarding the residential mortgage loans that we transfer to securitization trusts. Each securitization trust has recourse to us for breach of the representations and warranties we have made regarding the loans at the time such residential mortgages loans were transferred to the securitization trust. However, the remedies available to the securitization trust could be broader than the remedies available to us. In the event the securitization trust enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce similar remedies against our originators. The use of residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed securities securitizations with overcollateralization requirements could restrict our cash flow. We have used overcollateralization in connection with our securitizations, which could restrict our cash flow in the event loan delinquencies or credit losses on the securitized mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities exceed certain levels. The terms of our securitizations generally provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels based on rating agencies’ or applicable financial guaranty insurers’ analysis of the characteristics of the loans pledged to collateralize the securities, the required level of overcollateralization may increase or may not decrease as would otherwise be permitted. These and other tests may restrict our ability to receive net interest income from a securitization. 21 Table of Contents We rely on assumptions and estimates when we calculate the fair values and projected cash flows for the residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and hedging instruments that we hold. As a result, these fair values and projected cash flows could be subject to subsequent adjustment. We rely on assumptions and estimates when we calculate the fair values and projected cash flows of certain residential mortgage loan commitments, mortgage-backed securities and hedging instruments. We use internally-managed complex cash flow and valuation models that utilize a number of assumptions to calculate these values. We have implemented controls to ensure that our internally-generated market values and cash flows are reasonable. If our internally-generated market values and cash flows subsequently prove not to be reasonable or correct due to modeling errors, incorrect or incomplete underlying assumptions, a failure of our internal controls or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if we subsequently change one of the underlying assumptions used to determine the fair value and projected cash flow for a residential mortgage loan commitment, mortgage-backed security or hedging instrument, we could incur an impairment charge. We are subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services from third-party service providers. Third-party service providers are responsible for many of our important operational functions, including the servicing of our residential mortgage loans, the loans underlying our mortgage-backed securities, our residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed security securitizations, the custody of our assets, our bank accounts, the market pricing of some of our assets, income tax reporting for our assets, underwriting and credit management. As with any user of an external service provider, we are subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services and are dependent upon the availability and quality of the performance of such providers. In addition, our inability to secure appropriate servicing of our residential mortgage loans could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our hedging activities might be unsuccessful. We use Eurodollar futures, interest rate swaps, caps and floors, corridors, credit default swaps and other derivative instruments in order to reduce, or “hedge,” our interest rate and credit risks. The amount of hedging activities that we utilize varies from time to time. Our hedging activities might mitigate our interest rate and credit risks, but cannot completely eliminate these risks. The effectiveness of our hedging activities will depend significantly upon whether we correctly quantify the interest rate and credit risks being hedged, as well as our execution, and ongoing monitoring, of our hedging activities. In some situations, we may sell hedging instruments at a loss in order to maintain adequate liquidity. Our hedging activities could adversely impact our results of operations and our book value, and, therefore, such activities could be limited. We reflect all changes in the value of our hedging instruments, including Eurodollar futures, interest rate swaps, caps and floors, corridors, credit default swaps and other derivative instruments, in our consolidated statement of operations. This change creates volatility in our results of operations, as the market value of our hedging instruments changes over time, and this volatility may adversely impact our results of operations, financial conditions and book value. If we move to elect hedge accounting treatment in the future, we would become subject to the ongoing monitoring requirements of hedge accounting treatment. These requirements are complex and rigorous. If we fail to meet those requirements, or if our hedging activities do not qualify for hedge accounting, we would be required to utilize mark-to-market accounting in our statements of operations. Such accounting could result in higher volatility in our stockholders’ equity, or book value. Arco and its affiliates compete with us, and conflicts may arise from Arco’s allocation of investment opportunities. Our agreements with Arco do not prevent Arco and its affiliates from engaging in additional investment opportunities. As a result, Arco and its affiliates currently are engaged in and may in the future engage in investment opportunities that have overlapping objectives with us. In particular, affiliates of Arco currently manage a separate investment fund that invests in the same non-mortgage-backed securities investments as we do, including other fixed income investments and private equity investments. In case Arco exercises the warrant, with respect to this entity and any other competing entities Arco may establish in the future, Arco and its affiliates may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities. Arco’s allocation is solely at the discretion of Arco and could conflict with the interests of the holders of our shares. 22 Table of Contents The NYSE may not elect to list our common shares. Under the rules of the NYSE on which our common stock is listed, a stock may be delisted if its average closing stock price is below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days or if our average market capitalization over 30 consecutive trading days falls below $25 million. On January 9, 2008, the NYSE notified us that our common stock had traded below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days and that we were not in compliance with this NYSE continued listing standard. We have submitted a plan to NYSE describing the definitive action we intend to take to bring us into conformity with the NYSE’s continued listing standards within six months. During this period, our common stock may continue to be listed on the NYSE, subject to ongoing reassessment by the NYSE. The NYSE has no obligation to accept our plan. The NYSE could also seek to delist our common stock in the event that we are unable to continue to satisfy the NYSE’s other qualitative and quantitative standards for continued listing such as the market capitalization requirement. Litigation pending against us may adversely affect us. The litigation pending against us could be resolved in a manner that would have a material adverse effect on us. The lawsuits allege, generally, that we and certain of our officers and directors violated federal securities laws by making material misrepresentations to the market concerning our operations and prospects, thereby artificially inflating the price of our common stock. The complaints seek unspecified damages. The lawsuits have been consolidated into a single action, and a consolidated complaint has been filed. This case involves complex issues of law and fact and have not yet progressed to the point where we can: • predict its outcome; • estimate damages that might result from the case; or • predict the effect that final resolution of any litigation might have on our business, financial condition or results of operations, although such effect could be materially adverse. Our operations are significantly dependent on our information technology platform. We depend upon a complex and multi-layered information technology platform to conduct our operations. A disruption or loss of our information technology platform could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our technology platform consists of numerous software technology solutions provided by third-parties and our own internally-built and managed data warehouse which we rely on to manage substantially all of our business operations. Regulatory risks Due to recent market disruptions that resulted in our need to sell assets to satisfy margin calls on our financing agreements, we are relying on a safe harbor exemption from the 1940 Act, in order to not become regulated as an investment company. Failure to maintain an exemption from the 1940 Act would harm our results of operations. We seek to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Because we conduct some of our business through wholly owned subsidiaries, we must ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the 1940 Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries so qualifies. Under the 1940 Act, a company is not deemed to be an investment company if: • it neither is, nor holds itself out as being, engaged primarily, nor proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; and • it neither is engaged nor proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and does not own or propose to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis. This test is known as the 40% Test. The term “investment securities” excludes U.S. government securities and securities of majority owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exceptions from the definition of investment company under Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7). 23 Table of Contents We conduct our business primarily through wholly owned or majority owned subsidiaries. We must ensure that less than 40% of the value of our total assets consists of interests in subsidiaries that rely on Section 3(c)(1) or Section 3(c)(7) in order to meet the 40% Test. Several of our subsidiaries are designed to rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C). We call each of these a 3(c)(5)(C) subsidiary or a qualifying subsidiary. Based on a series of no-action letters issued by the SEC’s Division of Investment Management, or Division, in order for a subsidiary to qualify for this exemption, at least 55% of that subsidiary’s assets must consist of residential mortgage loans, or the “55% Test,” and other assets that are considered the functional equivalent of residential mortgage loans for purposes of the 1940 Act (collectively, “qualifying real estate assets”) and an additional 25% of that subsidiary’s assets must consist of real estate-related assets, or the “25% Test.” If we fail to qualify for this exemption, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to execute our current operating policies and programs. Because of the recent market deterioration and resulting defaults on our financing obligations, we have sold assets to meet margin calls on our financing agreements and several of the our subsidiaries designed to rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) currently fail to meet the 55% Test and must rely on Section 3(c)(7) to avoid registration as investment companies. As a result, we no longer satisfy the 40% Test. We are now relying upon Rule 3a-2 for our exemption from registration under the 1940 Act. Reliance upon Rule 3a-2 is permitted only once every three years. As a result, if our subsidiaries designed to rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C) fail to meet either the 55% Test or the 25% Test, or if we otherwise fail to maintain our exclusion from registration, within that three-year period, and another exemption is not available, we may be required to register as an investment company, or we may be required to acquire and/or dispose of assets in order to meet the 55% Test or other tests for exclusion. Any such asset acquisitions or dispositions may be of assets that we would not acquire or dispose of in the ordinary course of our business, may be at unfavorable prices or may impair our ability to make distributions to shareholders and result in a decline in the price of our common shares. If we are required to register under the 1940 Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure including our ability to use leverage, management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the 1940 Act) and portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Accordingly, registration under the 1940 Act could limit our ability to follow our current investment and financing strategies, impair our ability to make distributions to our common shareholders and result in a decline in the price of our common stock and cause us to be taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Legal and Tax Risks If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Furthermore, Congress or the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, might change tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having retroactive effect, that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT in a particular tax year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to our stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • any resulting tax liability could be substantial, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders and could force us to liquidate assets at inopportune times, causing lower income or higher losses than would result if these assets were not liquidated; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and, thus, our cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we are subject to U.S. federal, state and local taxes that reduce our cash flow. Any of 24 Table of Contents these taxes would decrease the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our current REIT qualification. Complying with REIT requirements might cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. To satisfy the requirement that we annually distribute at least 90% of taxable REIT net income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, we may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may cause us to forego opportunities we would otherwise pursue. In addition, the REIT provisions of the Code impose a 100% tax on income from “prohibited transactions.” Prohibited transactions generally include sales of assets that constitute inventory or other property held for sale in the ordinary course of a business, other than foreclosure property. This 100% tax could impact our decision to sell mortgage-backed securities at otherwise opportune times if we believe such sales could be considered prohibited transactions or to execute securitization transactions at the REIT level that are treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual income from qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified REIT real estate assets, is limited to less than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from non-qualified hedges and services from all sources, plus any other non-qualifying income, to less than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might in the future have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques, which could leave us exposed to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. If we fail to satisfy these requirements, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and we meet certain other technical requirements, we could lose our REIT qualification for federal income tax purposes. Even if our failure were due to reasonable cause, we might have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of our income in excess of certain thresholds, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. In order to qualify as a REIT, at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash items, government securities, certain temporary investments and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, generally, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer. We might be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments in order to satisfy these requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose our REIT qualification unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain statutory relief provisions. Under certain relief provisions, we would be subject to penalty taxes. In order to comply with REIT requirements we may be required to borrow to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, to our stockholders. From time to time, we might generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes from, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our taxable income might be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we might be unable to distribute 90% of our taxable income as required by the REIT rules. In that case, we would need to borrow funds, sell a portion of our residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities at disadvantageous prices or find another source of funds. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity and reduce amounts available to invest in residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities. If we do not make required distributions, we would be subject to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we would be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we would incur a 4% non-deductible excise tax on 25 Table of Contents the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year were less than the sum of: • 85% of our REIT ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We did not pay all of the required cash distributions of REIT taxable income for 2007 as required to maintain our qualification as a REIT. We are considering alternatives related to the payment of our dividend and other issues related to our current qualification as a REIT. See Note 11 to our December 31, 2007 consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information on our REIT qualification. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our GAAP income and cash flow, which may require us to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non-cash assets at unfavorable rates or times in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income and excise taxes. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined on the basis of GAAP because of GAAP-tax accounting differences. For example, realized capital losses are deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we invest in assets, including equity and debt securities issued in REMIC and non-REMIC securitizations, that generate taxable income in excess of GAAP income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, which we refer to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the excise tax with respect to any phantom income items that we do not distribute on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the excise tax in that year. We may lose our REIT qualification if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our future investments in CLO and CDO issuers. We intend to treat certain income inclusions received from our future equity investments in CLO and CDO issuers as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test, but not the 75% gross income test, although there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. In the event that such income were determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. To the extent any of our taxable REIT subsidiaries that are CLO and CDO issuers and are subject to U.S. federal income tax at the entity level, the amounts those entities could distribute to us and pay their creditors would be reduced. We intend that our taxable REIT subsidiaries that are CLO and CDO issuers will be organized as Cayman Islands companies and will rely on a specific exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities for their own account or any activity closely related thereto. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging that tax treatment, the amount that those CLO and CDO issuers would have available to distribute to us and to pay to their creditors could be reduced. Our recognition of excess inclusion income could have adverse tax consequences to us and our stockholders. We likely will recognize excess inclusion income with respect to our assets. Recently issued IRS guidance indicates that our excess inclusion income will be allocated among our stockholders in proportion to dividends paid. Excess inclusion income may not be offset by net operating losses otherwise available to stockholders, represents unrelated business taxable income in the hands of an otherwise tax-exempt stockholder and is subject to withholding tax at the maximum rate of 30%, without regard to otherwise applicable exemptions or rate reductions, to the extent such income is allocable to a stockholder who is not a U.S. person. Although the law is not entirely clear, excess inclusion income may be taxable (at the highest corporate tax rates) to us, rather than our stockholders, to the extent allocable to our stock held in record name by disqualified organizations (generally, tax-exempt entities not subject to unrelated business income tax, including governmental organizations). Nominees who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations also potentially may be subject to this tax. 26 Table of Contents Generally, excess inclusion income is the income allocable to a REMIC residual interest in excess of the income that would have been allocable to such interest if it were a bond having a yield to maturity equal to 120% of the long-term applicable rate based on the weighted-average yields of treasury securities that are published monthly by the IRS for use in various tax calculations. Although we structure our securitization transactions to qualify as non-REMIC financing transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we likely will recognize excess inclusion income attributable to the equity interests we retain in those securitization transactions. If a REIT holds 100% of the sole class of equity interest in a non-REMIC multi-class mortgage-backed securities offering that qualifies as a borrowing for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the equity interests retained by the REIT will be subject to rules similar to those applicable to a REMIC residual interest. Thus, because we undertake non-REMIC multi-class mortgage-backed securities transactions, we likely will recognize excess inclusion income. Generally, to maintain our REIT qualification, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gains) in each year. To the extent the sum of our excess inclusion income is less than 10% of our total taxable income, we may elect to pay tax on such excess inclusion income rather than treating a portion of our distributions as comprising excess inclusion income. Misplaced reliance on legal opinions or statements by issuers of mortgage-backed securities could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition or result in our failure to comply with REIT income or assets tests. When purchasing mortgage-backed securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents or confirmed trade tickets, for purposes of modeling our projected cash flows and market values for a mortgage-backed security, interest income recognition for a mortgage-backed security, and determining whether and to what extent a security constitutes a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produces income that qualifies under the REIT gross income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinion, statement, offering document, confirmed trade ticket or other written or orally provided information related to a mortgage-backed security we purchase, may adversely affect our REIT qualification and could result in significant corporate-level tax. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 