ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors describe many potential occurrences that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We employ a number of strategies designed to counteract these 14 Table of Contents potential occurrences which we describe under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. General Risks Related to Our Business We might not be able to purchase residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments that meet our investment criteria or at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. Our net income depends on our ability to acquire residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. Intense competition exists for the acquisition of mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments. Our competitors for these types of investments include other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies and mutual funds, many of which have greater financial resources than we do. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we were not able to acquire a sufficient amount of residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. The acquisition and securitization of mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and investments is inherently complex and involves many risks. The acquisition and securitization of mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments are inherently complex and involve risks related to the types and structures of the investments we seek to acquire, interest rate changes, funding sources, delinquency rates, borrower bankruptcies, capital market environments and other factors that we may not be able to manage successfully. If we are unable to manage these risks successfully, it could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Another risk that we face is greater than projected prepayment rates of the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own. The principal and interest payments that we receive from the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own are generally funded by the payments that borrowers make in accordance with the amortization schedules of their residential mortgage loans. When borrowers prepay their residential mortgage loans more quickly than we projected, we receive principal cash flows from our investments more quickly than we anticipated. Greater than projected prepayment rates can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates decline and decrease when interest rates rise. Prepayment rates may also be affected by other factors, including the condition of the housing and financial markets, the overall economy, residential mortgage loan interest rates currently available to borrowers in the market and the ability of borrowers to refinance their mortgages. We amortize any premiums or accrete discounts related to the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own through our income statement over their expected terms. The amortization of a premium through our income statement reduces our interest income, while the accretion of a discount through our income statement increases our interest income. The expected terms for residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are a function of the prepayment rates for the residential mortgage loans purchased or the residential mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities purchased. If residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we purchased at a premium are subsequently prepaid in whole or in part more quickly than we anticipated, we are then required to amortize their respective premiums more quickly, which would decrease our net interest income and adversely impact our results of operations. Conversely, if residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we purchased at a discount are subsequently prepaid in whole or in part more slowly than we anticipated, we are then required to accrete their respective discounts more slowly, which could decrease our net interest income and adversely impact our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our stockholders’ equity, or book value, is volatile. The fair values of the residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and hedging instruments that we purchase are subject to daily fluctuations in market pricing resulting from changes in a number of factors, including interest rates, yield spreads and credit quality. We carry our mortgage-backed securities as “available for sale,” and flow any changes in their fair value through the “other comprehensive income or loss” portion of stockholders’ equity on our balance sheet. The daily fluctuations in market pricing of these mortgage-backed securities, and the corresponding flow of these fluctuations through our stockholders’ equity, creates volatility in our stockholders’ equity, or book value. Our commitments to purchase residential mortgage loans are classified as derivative instruments on our balance sheet prior to settlement and are marked-to-market through our income statement. The daily fluctuations in market pricing of our mortgage loan commitments, and the corresponding flow of these fluctuations through our income statement, may create volatility in our stockholders’ equity, or book value. Hedging instruments are marked-to-market through our income statement. The daily fluctuation in market pricing of our hedging instruments, and the corresponding flow of these fluctuations through our income statement, may create volatility in our stockholders’ equity, or book value. Our residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and other investments are subject to the risks of delinquency, foreclosure and credit loss. Our risk of loss is dependent upon the performance of the residential mortgage loans that we purchase directly, as well as upon the performance of the residential mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities that we purchase or securitize and retain. All of our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are secured by underlying real property interests. We target residential mortgage loans with specific characteristics for our portfolio, including Alt-A documentation, which is considered non-conforming and may result in higher credit risks. Although we hold first lien positions on all of the mortgage-backed loans in our portfolio, borrowers may acquire a second lien against the underlying collateral, creating a higher risk of delinquency, foreclosure and losses. To the extent that the value of the property underlying our residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities decreases, our security could be impaired and we could expect greater credit losses. A substantial deterioration in the financial strength of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or other corporate guarantors of the mortgage-backed securities that we purchase could increase our exposure to future delinquencies, foreclosures or credit losses and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We purchase prime quality, first lien adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans for our Residential Mortgage Credit portfolio strategy that are underwritten to agreed-upon specifications but that may not be credit-enhanced and that do not have the backing of Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. In the event of a default on any mortgage loan that we hold, we would bear the net loss of principal and interest advanced to the security holders, as well as additional expenses, related to that loan. As part of our Residential Mortgage Credit portfolio strategy, we also purchase subordinated mortgage-backed securities that have credit ratings below AAA. These subordinated mortgage-backed securities are structured to absorb a disproportionate share of losses from their underlying residential mortgage loans. In the event of a default on any of the residential mortgage loans underlying the mortgage-backed securities that we hold pursuant to our Residential Mortgage Credit portfolio strategy, we could bear the net loss of principal and additional expenses. 16 Table of Contents Our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities have material geographic concentrations. Our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities have material geographic concentrations. The residential mortgage loans and the residential mortgage loans underlying our mortgage-backed securities that we own related to properties located in California, Florida, Arizona, Virginia and Nevada constitute a material portion of our assets. Our delinquency, foreclosure and credit losses over time may be exacerbated by this geographic concentration which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are subject to interest rate caps and payment caps with resets. The residential mortgage loans that we purchase directly and the mortgage-backed securities collateralized by the residential mortgage loans that we purchase may be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount that the interest rate on a mortgage loan can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount that the interest rate on a mortgage loan can increase during the life of the loan. The periodic adjustments to the interest rates of the residential mortgage loans that we purchase directly and that underlie our mortgage-backed securities, known as resets, are based on changes in an objective benchmark interest rate index, such as the U.S. Treasury index or LIBOR. During a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings could increase without limitation, while interest rate caps and delayed resets could limit the increases in the yields we receive on the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold. Further, some of the residential mortgage loans and mortgages underlying the mortgage-backed securities we hold may be subject to periodic interest rate payment caps that could result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the outstanding principal. As a result, we may receive less cash income on the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The representations and warranties that we make as part of our securitizations may subject us to liability. Prior to the purchase of loans, we review the originator’s underwriting guidelines and exception policies and then also obtain representations and warranties from each originator to the effect that each loan is underwritten in accordance with the guidelines. We make representations and warranties regarding the residential mortgage loans that we transfer to securitization trusts. Each securitization trust has recourse to us for breach of the representations and warranties we make regarding the loans at the time such residential mortgages loans are transferred to the securitization trust. However, the remedies available to the securitization trust could be broader than the remedies available to us. In the event the securitization trust enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce similar remedies against our originators. Furthermore, if we discover, prior to the securitization of a loan, that there is fraud or misrepresentation relating to that loan and the originator fails to repurchase the loan, we might not be able to securitize the loan and may have to sell it at a loss. The use of residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed securities securitizations with over- collateralization requirements could restrict our cash flow. If we use over-collateralization in connection with our securitizations, we could restrict our cash flow in the event loan delinquencies or credit losses on the securitized mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities exceed certain levels. The terms of our securitizations generally provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels based on rating agencies’ or applicable financial guaranty insurers’ analysis of the characteristics of the loans pledged to collateralize the securities, the required level of over-collateralization may increase or may not decrease as would otherwise be permitted. These and other tests may restrict our ability to receive net interest income from a securitization. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to securitize our residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities successfully, we may be unable to grow or execute our business strategies. The markets for securitized residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed securities markets are complex and subject to significant fluctuations in capacity. An inability to securitize the residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities we purchase could limit our ability to grow our business or execute our business strategies. In addition, an interruption or dislocation in the securitization markets in which we operate would harm our ability to complete the securitizations we rely on to grow our business. Furthermore, the residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed securities securitizations we hold are subject to significant market, interest rate and credit spread risks during the warehouse periods pending our securitizations, and complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge these risks completely. We purchase subordinated mortgage-backed securities that are structured to absorb a disproportionate amount of any credit losses on the underlying residential mortgage loans. We purchase subordinated mortgage-backed securities that have credit ratings below AAA. These subordinated mortgage-backed securities are structured to absorb a disproportionate share of the losses from their underlying residential mortgage loans, and expose us to high levels of volatility in net interest income, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, credit risk and market pricing volatility. We invest in some mortgage-backed securities backed by mid-prime or sub-prime residential mortgage loans which are subject to higher delinquency, foreclosure and credit loss rates than the prime residential mortgage loans we typically purchase. Mid-prime and sub-prime residential mortgage loans are typically made to borrowers who have poor or limited credit histories and who, as a result, do not qualify for traditional mortgage products. Because of their poor or limited credit histories, mid-prime and sub-prime borrowers have a substantially higher rate of delinquencies and foreclosure and loss rates than prime credit quality borrowers. The residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold are subject to potential illiquidity, which might prevent us from selling them at reasonable prices should we find it necessary or believe it is advisable to sell them. From time to time, residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities experience periods of illiquidity. A period of illiquidity might result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we hold at advantageous times and prices during periods of illiquidity which could increase our costs and reduce our book value. Periods of illiquidity could also adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of the mortgages we hold in our Residential Mortgage Credit portfolio permit negative amortization. Negative amortization can increase our overall risk. Certain mortgages that we purchase, and certain mortgages collateralizing mortgage-backed securities that we purchase, permit negative amortization. A negative amortization provision in a mortgage permits the borrower to defer payment of a portion of the monthly interest accrued on the mortgage and to add the deferred interest amount to the principal balance of the mortgage. As a result, during periods of negative amortization the principal balances of negatively amortizing mortgages increase and their weighted-average lives extend. When a mortgage or a mortgage collateralizing a mortgage-backed security experiences negative amortization, we continue to recognize interest income on the mortgage or mortgage-backed security even though we are not receiving cash interest in an amount equal to the deferred portion of the interest income. Unless we receive other sources of cash flow from these loans, such as principal repayment, we could experience negative cash flow. This negative cash flow could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Securitization structures allocate the principal payments and prepayments on mortgage 18 Table of Contents loans, including loans with negative amortization features. To date, prepayments on our mortgage loans with negative amortization have been sufficient to offset negative amortization such that all our securitization structures have made all their required payments to bond holders. In addition, when a mortgage experiences negative amortization, the principal balance of the mortgage increases while the underlying market value of the related mortgaged property can remain flat or decrease. In such cases, the then current loan-to-value ratio of the negatively-amortizing mortgage increases. Increasing current loan-to-value ratios on mortgages correspondingly increase the likelihood and severity of potential credit losses related to those mortgages. Our mortgage loans generally can experience negative amortization to a maximum amount of 110-115% of the original mortgage loan balance. As a result, given the relatively low average loan-to-value ratio of 72.6% on our portfolio, net of mortgage insurance, we believe that our portfolio would still have a significant homeowners’ equity cushion even if all negatively-amortizing loans reached their maximum permitted amount of negative amortization. To the extent a mortgage experiences negative amortization such that its loan-to-value ratio exceeds the fair market value of the real estate securing the mortgage at the time we purchased the mortgage, that mortgage will no longer constitute a qualifying asset for the test we are required to meet under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we fail to satisfy the test, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to conduct our business in accordance with our operating policies. In addition, any portion of the principal balance of a negatively-amortizing mortgage that exceeds the appraised value of the underlying mortgaged property at the time we purchased it will constitute a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the 75% asset test and produce non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test, applicable to REITs under the Code. Any failure to comply with these tests could result in monetary penalties and the potential loss of our REIT status. Performance of our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities are subject to the overall health of the U.S. economy, and a national or regional economic slowdown could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. The health of the U.S. residential mortgage market is correlated with the overall health of the U.S. economy. An overall decline in the U.S. economy could cause a significant decrease in the values of mortgaged properties throughout the U.S. This decrease, in turn, could increase the risk of delinquency, default or foreclosure on our residential mortgage loans and on the residential mortgage loans underlying our mortgage-backed securities, and could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, our financing is subject to credit risk of the counterparties in our financing transactions. Our inability to obtain a significant amount of financing through these sources would adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. We might not be able to obtain financing that allows us to purchase residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities we would otherwise want to purchase. The success of our business strategies depends upon our ability to obtain various types of financing sufficient to purchase residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities to allow us to execute our growth strategies. Our financing sources include repurchase agreements, commercial paper, warehouse financing, the issuance of debt securities, hedging instruments and other types of long-term financing, including the issuance of junior subordinated notes (trust preferred securities) or preferred and common equity securities. We achieve our leverage primarily by borrowing against the market value of our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities through a combination of repurchase agreements, commercial paper, warehouse financing, debt securities and other types of borrowings, plus their related hedging instruments. Some of our sources of borrowings are from “committed” sources, such as commercial paper, warehouse facilities and debt securities, and some are from “uncommitted” sources, such as repurchase agreement lines. At any given time, our total indebtedness depends significantly upon our lenders’ estimates of our pledged assets’ market value, credit quality, liquidity and expected cash flows as well as upon our lenders’ applicable 19 Table of Contents asset advance rates, also known as “haircuts.” In addition, uncommitted borrowing sources have the right to stop lending to us at any time. The residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities that we purchase are subject to daily fluctuations in market pricing resulting from changes in interest rates, yield spreads and credit quality. As market prices change, our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities that are financed through repurchase agreements, commercial paper and warehouse financing, and their related hedging instruments, may be subject to margin calls by our financing counterparties. A margin call requires us to post more collateral or cash with our counterparties in support of our financing or hedging activities. We face the risk that we might not be able to meet our debt service obligations or margin calls and, to the extent that we cannot, we might be forced to liquidate some or all of our assets at disadvantageous prices that would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. A default on a collateralized borrowing could also result in an involuntary liquidation of the pledged asset, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if our lenders do not allow us to renew our borrowings or hedging instruments or we cannot replace maturing borrowings or hedging instruments on favorable terms or at all, we might be forced to liquidate some or all of our assets at disadvantageous prices which would adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Recently, the subprime mortgage banking environment has been experiencing considerable strain from rising delinquencies and liquidity pressures and several subprime mortgage lenders have failed. Certain subprime lenders have been unable to obtain further financing and may not be able to satisfy outstanding debt obligations. The increased scrutiny of the subprime lending market could in the future adversely impact the Alt-A mortgage market in which we operate because we might not be able to obtain financing. The decline in the subprime mortgage industry and the failure of subprime mortgage lenders could also affect the availability of financing to the Alt-A mortgage industry. This environment could reduce our ability to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and reduce or eliminate our ability to obtain financing for our mortgage assets. Our investment strategies employ a significant amount of leverage. Our investment strategies generally employ leverage. Our financing arrangements, including our repurchase agreements, commercial paper, warehouse financing, debt securities and other types of borrowings, and their related hedging instruments, contain operating and financial covenants with which we must comply on a continuing basis. Our failure to comply with these operating and financial covenants could result in one or more of our financing or hedging arrangements being declared in default, cancelled or not renewed. We manage the levels of the financing liabilities funding our portfolios based on recourse leverage. At December 31, 2006, our recourse leverage ratio, defined as recourse financing liabilities as a ratio of stockholders’ equity plus long-term debt, was 7.4x. We generally seek to maintain an overall borrowing recourse leverage of less than 10 times the amount of our equity and long-term debt. We actively manage our capital efficiency through our liability structure, including the non-recourse mortgage-backed notes issued to finance our securitized loans held for investment, in order to manage our liquidity and interest rate related risks. Leverage also amplifies the potential severity of the other risks discussed in these “Risk Factors”. Another risk of our business is interest rate mismatches between the residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities we own and the borrowings we use to acquire these assets. The interest rate repricing terms of the borrowings that we use may be different from the interest rate repricing terms of our assets. As a result, during a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in, or elimination of, our net income or incur a net loss because the interest rates on our borrowings could increase faster than the yields on our assets. Conversely, during a period of declining interest rates and accompanying higher prepayment activity, we could experience a decrease in, or elimination of, our net income or generate a net loss as a result of higher premium amortization expense, because the interest we receive on our assets may decrease more quickly than the interest we pay on our borrowings. 20 Table of Contents Our use of certain types of financing may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or any of our lenders file for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements, commercial paper and warehouse financing may qualify for a treatment under the bankruptcy code that could give our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay if we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, this treatment of repurchase agreements, commercial paper and warehouse financing under the bankruptcy code may make it more difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that any of our lenders files for bankruptcy. Thus, our use of repurchase agreements, commercial paper and warehouse financing exposes our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by us or any of our lenders. We may not be able to acquire eligible securities for CDO issuances or other securitizations on favorable economic terms, and may not be able to structure CDOs and other securitizations on attractive terms. The assets acquired by our warehouse providers at our direction or financed using repurchase agreements may not be suitable for a future CDO transaction, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. We finance mortgage-backed securities and other securities on a long-term basis through the issuance of CDOs and other types of securitizations. We are subject to the risk, that during the period that our financing arrangements are available, a sufficient amount of eligible assets cannot be acquired to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance or other securitization and the risk that the assets acquired by our warehouse providers may not be suitable for a CDO issuance. In addition, disruptions in the capital markets generally, or in the securitization markets, specifically, may make the issuance of a CDO or another securitization transaction less attractive or even impossible. If we are unable to securitize our assets, or if doing so is not economical, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at a price that could result in a loss of all or a portion of the cash and other collateral backing our purchase commitment. The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow and may trigger certain termination provisions in the related collateral management agreements. The terms of the CDOs we intend to structure generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related securities issued by them by a certain amount, commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The CDO terms provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed the specified levels based on the analysis by the rating agencies (or any financial guaranty insurer) of the characteristics of the assets collateralizing the CDO securities, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. In addition, a failure by a CDO in which we hold equity interests to satisfy an over-collateralization test typically results in accelerated distributions to the holders of the senior debt securities issued by the CDOs. Our equity holdings will be subordinate in right of payment to the debt securities issued by the CDOs in which we invest. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive cash distributions from assets collateralizing the CDO securities. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to CDO delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms and cash flows may materially and adversely affect our net income. In addition, collateral management agreements typically provide that if certain over-collateralization tests are not met, the collateral management agreement may be terminated. If the assets held by CDOs fail to perform as anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected, and the over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expenses associated with our CDO financings will increase. 21 Table of Contents Our investments in the equity securities of CDOs involve significant risks, including that CDO equity holders receive distributions from the CDO only if the CDO generates enough income to first pay the holders of its debt securities and its expenses. We intend to invest in equity securities issued by CDOs. A CDO is a special purpose vehicle that purchases collateral (such as bank loans or asset-backed securities) that is expected to generate a stream of interest or other income. The CDO issues various classes of securities that participate in that income stream, typically one or more classes of debt instruments and a class of equity securities. The equity is usually entitled to all of the income generated by the CDO after the CDO pays all of the interest and principal due on the debt securities and its expenses. However, little or no income will be available to the holders of the CDO equity if there are defaults by the issuers of the underlying collateral and those defaults exceed a certain amount. If sufficient defaults occur, the value of our investment in the CDO’s equity could decrease substantially or be eliminated entirely. In addition, the equity securities of CDOs are generally illiquid, and because these equity securities represent a leveraged investment in the CDO’s assets, the value of the equity securities will generally have greater fluctuations than the values of the underlying collateral. Our hedging activities might be unsuccessful. We use Eurodollar futures, interest rate swaps, caps and floors, corridors, credit default swaps and other derivative instruments in order to reduce, or “hedge,” our interest rate and credit risks. The amount of hedging activities that we utilize varies from time to time. Our hedging activities might mitigate our interest rate and credit risks, but cannot completely eliminate these risks. The effectiveness of our hedging activities will depend significantly upon whether we correctly quantify the interest rate and credit risks being hedged, as well as our execution of and ongoing monitoring of our hedging activities. In some situations, we may sell hedging instruments at a loss in order to maintain adequate liquidity. Compliance with REIT tax requirements limits the manner in which we can employ various types of hedging strategies. Our hedging activities could adversely impact our results of operations, our book value and our status as a REIT and, therefore, such activities could be limited. Effective January 1, 2006, we discontinued the use of hedge accounting as defined in SFAS No. 133. As a result, all changes in the value of our hedging instruments, including Eurodollar futures, interest rate swaps, caps and floors, corridors, credit default swaps and other derivative instruments, is reflected in our consolidated statement of operations. This change creates volatility in our results of operations, as the market value of our hedging instruments changes over time, and this volatility may adversely impact our results of operations, financial conditions and book value. If we move to elect hedge accounting treatment in the future, we would become subject to the ongoing monitoring requirements of hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133. These requirements are complex and rigorous. If we fail to meet those requirements, or if our hedging activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, we would be required to utilize mark-to-market accounting in our consolidated statements of operations. Such accounting could result in higher volatility in our stockholders’ equity, or book value. We rely on assumptions and estimates when we calculate the fair values and projected cash flows for the residential mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and hedging instruments we hold. As a result, these fair values and projected cash flows could be subject to subsequent adjustment. We rely on assumptions and estimates when we calculate the fair values and projected cash flows of certain residential mortgage loan commitments, mortgage-backed securities and hedging instruments. We use internally-managed complex cash flow and valuation models that utilize a number of assumptions to calculate these values. We have implemented controls to ensure that our internally-generated market values and cash flows are reasonable. If our internally-generated market values and cash flows subsequently prove not to be reasonable or correct due to modeling errors, incorrect or incomplete underlying assumptions, a failure of our internal controls or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if we subsequently change one of the underlying assumptions used to determine the fair value and 22 Table of Contents projected cash flow for a residential mortgage loan commitment, mortgage-backed security or hedging instrument, we could incur an impairment charge. Our operations are significantly dependent on our information technology platform. We depend upon a complex and multi-layered information technology platform to conduct our operations. A disruption or loss of our information technology platform could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our technology platform consists of numerous software technology solutions provided by third-parties and our own internally-built and managed data warehouse which we rely on to manage substantially all of our business operations. We are subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services from third-party service providers. Third-party service providers are responsible for many of our important operational functions, including the servicing of our residential mortgage loans, the loans underlying our mortgage-backed securities, our residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed security securitizations, our commercial paper program, the custody of our assets, our bank accounts, the market pricing of some of our assets, income tax reporting for our assets, underwriting and credit management. As with any external service provider, we are subject to the risks associated with inadequate or untimely services and are dependent upon the availability and quality of the performance of such providers. In addition, our inability to secure appropriate servicing of our residential mortgage loans could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Legal and Tax Risks If we are disqualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress or the IRS might change tax laws or regulations and the courts might issue new rulings, in each case potentially having retroactive effect, that could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT in a particular tax year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means that we would be unable to deduct distributions to our stockholders in computing taxable income and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • any resulting tax liability could be substantial, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders and could force us to liquidate assets at inopportune times, causing lower income or higher losses than would result if these assets were not liquidated; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification and, thus, our cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we are subject to federal, state and local taxes that reduce our cash flow. Any of these taxes would decrease the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements might cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, our sources of income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. To satisfy the requirement that we annually distribute at least 90% of taxable REIT net income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain, we may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at 23 Table of Contents disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with REIT requirements may cause us to forego opportunities we would otherwise pursue. In addition, the REIT provisions of the Code impose a 100% tax on income from “prohibited transactions.” Prohibited transactions generally include sales of assets that constitute inventory or other property held for sale in the ordinary course of a business, other than foreclosure property. This 100% tax could impact our decision to sell mortgage-backed securities at otherwise opportune times if we believe such sales could be considered prohibited transactions or to execute securitization transactions at the REIT level that are treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual income from qualified hedges, together with any other income not generated from qualified REIT real estate assets, is limited to less than 25% of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate income from nonqualified hedges and services from all sources, plus any other nonqualifying income, to less than 5% of our annual gross income. As a result, we might in the future have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques, which could leave us exposed to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. If we fail to satisfy these requirements, unless our failure was due to reasonable cause and we meet certain other technical requirements, we could lose our REIT status for federal income tax purposes. Even if our failure were due to reasonable cause, we might have to pay a penalty tax equal to the amount of our income in excess of certain thresholds, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. In order to qualify as a REIT, at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash items, government securities, certain temporary investments and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, generally, no more than 5% of the value of our assets can consist of the securities of any one issuer. We might be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments in order to satisfy these requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose our REIT status unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain statutory relief provisions. Under certain relief provisions, we would be subject to penalty taxes. In order to comply with REIT requirements we may be required to borrow to make distributions to our stockholders. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, to our stockholders. From time to time, we might generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes from, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our taxable income might be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we might be unable to distribute 90% of our taxable income as required by the REIT rules. In that case, we would need to borrow funds, sell a portion of our residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities at disadvantageous prices or find another source of funds. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity and reduce amounts available to invest in residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities. If we do not make required distributions, we would be subject to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we would be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, 24 Table of Contents we would incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year were less than the sum of: • 85% of our REIT ordinary income for that year; • 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year; and • 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to continue to distribute our REIT taxable income to our stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid both corporate income tax and the excise tax. There is, however, no requirement that our domestic taxable REIT subsidiaries distribute their after-tax net income to us, and our domestic taxable REIT subsidiaries may determine not to make any distributions to us. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our GAAP income and cash flow, which may require us to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non-cash assets at unfavorable rates or times in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income and excise taxes. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined on the basis of GAAP because of GAAP-tax accounting differences. For example, realized capital losses are deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we invest in assets, including equity and debt securities issued in REMIC and non-REMIC securitizations, that generate taxable income in excess of GAAP income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets, which we refer to as phantom income. Although some types of phantom income are excluded in determining the 90% distribution requirement, we will incur corporate income tax and the excise tax with respect to any phantom income items that we do not distribute on an annual basis. As a result of the foregoing, we may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. In that event, we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate non-cash assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the excise tax in that year. We may lose our REIT status if the IRS successfully challenges our characterization of our income from our future investments in CLO and CDO issuers. We intend to treat certain income inclusions received from our future equity investments in CLO and CDO issuers as qualifying income for purposes of the 95% gross income test but not the 75% gross income test, although there is no clear precedent with respect to the qualification of such income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. In the event that such income were determined not to qualify for the 95% gross income test, we could be subject to a penalty tax with respect to such income to the extent it exceeds 5% of our gross income or we could fail to qualify as a REIT. To the extent any of our taxable REIT subsidiaries that are CLO and CDO issuers and are subject to federal income tax at the entity level, the amounts those entities could distribute to us and pay their creditors would be reduced. We intend that our taxable REIT subsidiaries that are CLO and CDO issuers will be organized as Cayman Islands companies and will rely on a specific exemption from federal income tax for non-U.S. corporations that restrict their activities in the United States to trading stock and securities for their own account or any activity closely related thereto. If the IRS were to succeed in challenging that tax treatment, the amount that those CLO and CDO issuers would have available to distribute to us and to pay to their creditors could be reduced. Our recognition of excess inclusion income could have adverse tax consequences to us and our stockholders. We likely will recognize excess inclusion income with respect to our assets. Recently issued IRS guidance indicates that our excess inclusion income will be allocated among our stockholders in proportion to dividends paid. Excess inclusion income may not be offset by net operating losses otherwise available to stockholders, represents unrelated business taxable income in the hands of an otherwise tax-exempt stockholder 25 Table of Contents and is subject to withholding tax at the maximum rate of 30%, without regard to otherwise applicable exemptions or rate reductions, to the extent such income is allocable to a stockholder who is not a U.S. person. Although the law is not entirely clear, excess inclusion income may be taxable (at the highest corporate tax rates) to us, rather than our stockholders, to the extent allocable to our stock held in record name by disqualified organizations (generally, tax-exempt entities not subject to unrelated business income tax, including governmental organizations). Nominees who hold our stock on behalf of disqualified organizations also potentially may be subject to this tax. Generally, excess inclusion income is the income allocable to a REMIC residual interest in excess of the income that would have been allocable to such interest if it were a bond having a yield to maturity equal to 120% of the long-term applicable rate based on the weighted-average yields of treasury securities that are published monthly by the IRS for use in various tax calculations. Although we structure our securitization transactions to qualify as non-REMIC financing transactions for federal income tax purposes, we likely will recognize excess inclusion income attributable to the equity interests we retain in those securitization transactions. If a REIT holds 100% of the sole class of equity interest in a non-REMIC multi-class mortgage-backed securities offering that qualifies as a borrowing for federal income tax purposes, the equity interests retained by the REIT, will be subject to rules similar to those applicable to a REMIC residual interest. Thus, because we undertake non-REMIC multi-class mortgage-backed securities transactions, we likely will recognize excess inclusion income. Generally, to maintain our REIT status, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gains) in each year. To the extent the sum of our excess inclusion income is less than 10% of our total taxable income, we may elect to pay tax on such excess inclusion income rather than treating a portion of our distributions as comprising excess inclusion income. Misplaced reliance on legal opinions or statements by issuers of mortgage-backed securities could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition or result in our failure to comply with REIT income or assets tests. When purchasing mortgage-backed securities, we may rely on opinions of counsel for the issuer or sponsor of such securities, or statements made in related offering documents or confirmed trade tickets, for purposes of modeling our projected cash flows and market values for a mortgage-backed security, interest income recognition for a mortgage-backed security, and determining whether and to what extent a security constitutes a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests and produces income that qualifies under the REIT gross income tests. The inaccuracy of any such opinion, statement, offering document, confirmed trade ticket or other written or orally provided information related to a mortgage-backed security we purchase, may adversely affect our REIT qualification and could result in significant corporate-level tax. Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would harm our results of operations. We seek to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Because we conduct some of our business through wholly owned subsidiaries, we must ensure not only that we qualify for an exclusion or exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, but also that each of our subsidiaries so qualifies. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on, and interests in, real estate. Under the current interpretation of the SEC, based on a series of no-action letters issued by the SEC’s Division of Investment Management (Division), in order to qualify for this exemption, at least 55% of our assets must consist of residential mortgage loans and other assets that are considered the functional equivalent of residential mortgage loans for purposes of the Investment Company Act (collectively, “qualifying real estate assets”), and an additional 25% of our assets must consist of real estate-related assets. 26 Table of Contents Based on the no-action letters issued by the Division, we classify our investment in residential mortgage loans as qualifying real estate assets, provided the loans are “fully secured” by an interest in real estate. That is, if the loan-to-value ratio of the loan is equal to or less than 100%, then we consider the mortgage loan a qualifying real estate asset. We do not consider loans with loan-to-value ratios in excess of 100% to be qualifying real estate assets for the 55% test, but only real estate-related assets for the 25% test. We also consider agency whole pool certificates to be qualifying real estate assets. Most non-agency mortgage-backed securities do not constitute qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the 55% test, because they represent less than the entire beneficial interest in the related pool of residential mortgage loans. If we acquire securities that, collectively, are expected to receive all of the principal and interest paid on the related pool of underlying loans (less fees, such as servicing and trustee fees, and expenses of the securitization), then we will consider those securities, collectively, to be qualifying real estate assets. Mortgage-backed securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as separate from the underlying residential mortgage loans and, thus, may not qualify for purposes of the 55% requirement. Therefore, our ownership of these mortgage-backed securities is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. One exception relates to the most subordinate class of securities issued in a securitization if the holder has the right to decide whether to foreclose upon defaulted loans. In addition to monitoring our assets to qualify for exclusion from regulation as an investment company, we also must ensure that each of our subsidiaries qualifies for its own exclusion or exemption. To the extent that we form subsidiaries in the future, we must ensure that they qualify for their own separate exclusion from regulation as an investment company. We have not received, nor have we sought, a no-action letter from the Division regarding how our investment strategy fits within the exclusion from regulation under the Investment Company Act that we are using. In satisfying the 55% requirement under the Investment Company Act, we treat as qualifying real estate assets residential mortgage loans that we own and mortgage-backed securities issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we hold all issued certificates, or subordinate classes with foreclosure rights with respect to the underlying residential mortgage loans. If the SEC adopts a contrary interpretation of such treatment, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our mortgage-backed securities under potentially adverse market conditions. Further, we might be precluded from acquiring higher-yielding mortgage-backed securities and instead buy a lower yielding security in our attempts to ensure that we at all times qualify for the exemption under the Investment Company Act. These factors may lower or eliminate our net income. We plan to continue to satisfy the tests with respect to our assets, measured on an unconsolidated basis. It is not completely settled, however, that the tests are to be measured on an unconsolidated basis. To the extent the SEC provides further guidance on how to measure assets for these tests, we will adjust our measurement techniques. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would be unable to execute our current operating policies and programs. Our investments in CDOs will not be classified as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the 55% test. Accordingly, as we increase our investments in CDOs, we intend to organize our business so that Luminent falls outside of the definition of “investment company” set forth in Sections 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act. Section 3(a)(1)(C) defines a company as an investment company if among other things it owns investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of cash items and U.S. government securities). Excluded from the term “investment securities,” among other things, are securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves investment companies and are not relying on the exception from that definition provided in either Section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company. To ensure that we are not considered an investment company under Section 3(a)(1)(C), we will need to contribute assets from Luminent into various subsidiaries. Many of our subsidiaries will continue to rely on 27 Table of Contents Section 3(c)(5)(C). Because our CDOs will not be able to rely on Section 3(c)(5)(C), however, we generally will want to structure them so that they may rely on an exemption other than Section 3(c)(7). As a general rule, we will structure them to conform to the requirements of Rule 3a-7, a rule promulgated for structured financing entities. These entities cannot engage in portfolio management techniques resembling those used by mutual funds. In particular, they cannot dispose of assets primarily for the purpose of recognizing gains or decreasing losses due to market value changes. Risks Related to Investing in Our Securities The timing and amount of our cash distributions may be volatile. Our policy is to make distributions to our stockholders of all or substantially all of our REIT taxable net income in each fiscal year, subject to certain adjustments. We estimate our REIT taxable net income at certain times during the course of each fiscal year based upon a variety of information from third parties, although we do not receive some of this information before we complete our estimates. As a result, our REIT taxable net income estimates during the course of each fiscal year are subject to adjustments to reflect not only the subsequent receipt of new information as to future events but also the subsequent receipt of information as to past events. Our REIT taxable net income is also subject to changes in the Code, or in the interpretation of the Code, with respect to our business model. REIT taxable net income for each fiscal year does not become final until we file our tax return for that fiscal year. We do not intend to establish minimum distributions for the foreseeable future. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant from time to time. Our ability to make distributions to our stockholders in the future is dependent on these factors. Our declared cash distribution may force us to liquidate residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities or borrow funds. From time to time, our Board of Directors will declare cash distributions. These distribution declarations are irrevocable. If we do not have sufficient cash to fund distributions, we will need to liquidate residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities or borrow funds by entering into repurchase agreements or otherwise borrowing funds under our margin lending facility to pay the distribution. If required, the sale of residential mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities at prices lower than the carrying value of such assets would result in losses. Also, if we were to borrow funds on a regular basis to make distributions, it is likely that our results of operations and our stock price would be harmed. If we were to offer debt securities, those securities would be senior to our common stock in the event of our liquidation. In the future, we may increase our capital resources by additional offerings of debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of preferred stock or common stock. If we were to subsequently liquidate, holders of our debt securities, shares of any preferred stock we issued and our lenders would be entitled to receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our additional equity offerings could dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the value of our common stock, or both. Because our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. 28 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or securities convertible into our common stock, in the public market or the availability of such securities for sale. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may harm prevailing market prices for our common stock. Subject to Rule 144 volume limitations applicable to our officers and directors, substantially all of our shares of common stock outstanding are eligible for immediate resale by their holders. If any of our stockholders were to sell a large number of shares in the public market, the sale could reduce the market price of our common stock and could impede our ability to raise future capital through a sale of additional equity securities. Restrictions on ownership of our capital stock might limit your opportunity to receive a premium on our stock. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification and for other reasons, our charter prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% of the lesser of the total number or value of the outstanding shares of our preferred stock. The constructive ownership rules in our charter are complex, and may cause our outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our board of directors is void, and will result in the shares being transferred by operation of law to a charitable trust. These provisions might inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares that might otherwise exist if any person were to attempt to assemble a block of our stock in excess of the number of shares permitted under our charter and that may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that could involve an actual or threatened change in control of our company. These provisions include a classified board of directors, limitations on the removal of directors, provisions relating to the size of our board of directors and the filling of vacancies, the issuance of preferred stock, the duties of our directors in respect to unsolicited takeovers, provisions limiting transactions with interested stockholders and restrictions on control share acquisitions. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 