Risk Factors You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties relating to our business including those described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem material could also become important factors that may harm our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you could lose all or part of your investment. If we fail to meet the borrowing requirements under our loan and security agreement, we may be unable to obtain necessary short-term financing and if we default on a secured loan, material assets of ours could be subject to forfeiture. From time to time, we may experience the need to obtain funding to meet short-term cash requirements, such as the acquisition of inventory prior to our holiday selling season. We currently are party to a loan and security agreement which provides us with a revolving credit facility for the primary purpose of enabling us to satisfy any such funding needs. However, as is typical for agreements of this sort, the loan and security agreement requires us to meet certain financial conditions as a prerequisite to obtaining and maintaining loans thereunder and we can offer no assurances that we will be able to meet such conditions when a loan is needed or continue to meet such conditions when a loan is outstanding. If we are unable to meet the conditions for borrowing under our loan and security agreement when funds are required, we could be prevented from purchasing sufficient inventory to meet our revenue and profitability objectives or from meeting other payment obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Further, if we were to breach such financial conditions while a loan is outstanding under the loan and security agreement, it could constitute a default under that agreement which could require immediate repayment of amounts owed under the agreement. Further, our obligations under the loan and security agreement are secured by substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including intellectual property. If we default under our loan and security agreement for any reason and are unable to cure the default pursuant to the terms of that agreement, our lenders could take possession of any or all of our assets in which they hold a security interest, including intellectual property, and dispose of those assets to the extent necessary to pay off our debts, which could materially harm our business. The loan and security agreement also contains a covenant that prohibits us from paying cash dividends to our stockholders. We may need additional financing and may not be able to raise additional financing on favorable terms or at all, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to grow and dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital in the future to facilitate long-term expansion, to respond to competitive pressures or to respond to unanticipated financial requirements. Since our inception through fiscal 2006, we have experienced negative cash flow from operations on a fiscal year basis and may experience negative cash flow from operations on a fiscal year basis in the future. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of our common stock and our stockholders could experience dilution of their ownership interests. We may also be subject to high interest rates or substantial restrictive covenants. Further, under the terms of our loan and security agreement, we are subject to certain contractual limitations with respect to raising additional capital during the term of that agreement. Any failure to obtain necessary capital on commercially reasonable terms could have severe adverse consequences on our business. Further, an inability to obtain additional financing could require us to scale back, or fail to address opportunities for expansion or enhancement of, our operations. 8 Table of Contents We are dependent on the success of our advertising and marketing efforts which are costly and may not achieve desired results. Our revenues depend on our ability to advertise and market our products effectively through our catalog, online marketing programs and other advertising and marketing efforts. If we do not successfully advertise and market our products, our operating results will be seriously harmed. Increases in the cost of advertising and marketing, including paper and postage costs, the costs of online marketing and the costs of complying with applicable regulations, may limit our ability to advertise and market our business in a cost-effective manner. In addition, individuals are increasingly using software programs that block certain email marketing campaigns, and certain federal and state laws and regulations may restrict our ability to effectively utilize email as a marketing tool. If we decrease our advertising or marketing activities, if the effectiveness of such activities is diminished, due to increased costs, restrictions enacted by regulatory agencies or for any other reason, or if our current advertising strategy does not yield anticipated results, our future operating results could be significantly harmed. Although the Company experienced an increase in the average number of items per order, an increase in average retail price per item sold and an increase in shipping revenue, we experienced a 0.9% decrease in the number of orders shipped over the prior year. The decline in orders shipped in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was 6.7% as a result of reduced marketing expenditures for new customer prospecting in the third and fourth quarters, which also resulted in a 9.8% decrease in customer acquisitions in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. Management currently expects this reduction to result in downward pressures on revenues until renewed prospecting initiatives take effect in the latter part of fiscal 2008. We have a history of significant losses. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability, our financial condition and stock price could suffer. We have a history of losses and we may continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. As of April 1, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $93.0 million and, in fiscal 2007, the Company incurred a net loss of $3.5 million. We have not achieved profitability for a full fiscal year since our inception. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be able to achieve full fiscal year profitability in the near future or at all. Even if we do achieve full fiscal year profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we are unable to achieve full fiscal year profitability within a short period of time, or at all, or if we are unable to sustain profitability at satisfactory levels, our financial condition and stock price could be adversely affected. Because we experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales, our quarterly results will fluctuate and our annual performance will depend largely on results from one quarter. Our business is highly seasonal, reflecting the general pattern of peak sales for the retail industry during the holiday shopping season. Typically, a substantial portion of our net revenues occur during our third fiscal quarter ending around December 31. We generally experience lower net revenues during the first, second and fourth fiscal quarters and, as is typical in the retail industry, have incurred and may continue to incur losses in these quarters. The third fiscal quarter accounted for approximately 47% of net revenues in the fiscal year ended April 1, 2007. We cannot predict with certainty what percentage of our total net revenues for fiscal year 2008 will be represented by our third fiscal quarter revenues. In anticipation of increased sales activity during the third fiscal quarter, we incur significant additional expenses, including significantly higher inventory and staffing costs. If sales for the third fiscal quarter do not meet anticipated levels, for whatever reason, then increased expenses may not be offset and it would have a disproportionately large negative impact on our annual operating results and financial condition for that fiscal year. If our net revenues during our third fiscal quarter were to fall below projections or the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price could decline, perhaps significantly. Our operating results are volatile and difficult to predict and may adversely affect our stock price. Our annual and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors including those discussed in this report, many of which are outside of our control. Further, because our business is seasonal, our operating results may vary significantly from one quarter to the next 9 Table of Contents as part of our normal business cycle. As a result, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarter our operating results may fall below projections or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. Our computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption, which could harm our business. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders successfully through our website is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events (such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks), and errors in usage by our employees and customers. The uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems may also be dependent upon the continued performance of third party vendors and/or service providers with whom we have contracted. In the event that one of our third party service providers fails for any reason to perform its obligations in a timely or efficient manner, or at all, our operations could be interrupted or adversely affected or we could be required to incur additional, unanticipated costs. Further, our servers are located at the facilities of, and hosted by, a third-party service provider in San Francisco, California. In the event that this service provider experiences any interruption in its operations or ceases operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for a continued hosting relationship, we could be forced to enter into a relationship with another service provider or take over hosting responsibilities ourselves. We eliminated the redundant data center that we had in Cincinnati, Ohio and during the second quarter of fiscal 2007 and we established a failover system at our primary data center for all of our production systems. We cannot assure you that, in the event it became necessary to switch hosting facilities, we would be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. Any significant loss of data or interruption in the availability or functionality of our website, or our sales processing, fulfillment or communications systems for any reason, particularly an interruption during the holiday season, could seriously harm our business and operating results. And, any significant additional expenses incurred as a result of any failure by a third party to perform obligations in a timely or efficient manner or any significant costs associated with finding a new vendor or service provider or taking over responsibilities ourselves would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to offer a broad selection of innovative merchandise that consumers find attractive, our revenues could decline or fail to reach anticipated levels. In order to meet our strategic goals, we must successfully offer, on a continuous basis, a broad selection of appealing products. These products must satisfy the diverse tastes of our customers and potential customers for a variety of gift-giving occasions. To be successful, our product offerings must be competitively priced, well made, innovative and attractive to a wide range of consumers whose preferences may change regularly. We cannot predict with certainty that we will be successful in offering products that meet these requirements. If our products become less popular with consumers, our revenues may decline or fail to meet expected levels or we may decide to offer our products at lower prices. If a wide range of consumers do not find our products attractive or if we are required to reduce our prices, our operating results would be adversely affected. Failure to successfully manage or expand our fulfillment and distribution operation would have a material adverse effect on us. Our fulfillment and distribution operation is located in leased facilities in Lockbourne, Ohio. In the past, we have encountered difficulties managing our fulfillment and distribution operations, and we may encounter such difficulties in the future. If we are unable to manage successfully our fulfillment and distribution operations and to meet our customers’ expectations regarding personalization, presentation and delivery, our business reputation, operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. Further, any difficulty in managing our fulfillment and distribution operations could require us to find one or more parties to provide these services for us. If we are 10 Table of Contents required to engage one or more service providers, we could incur higher fulfillment expenses than anticipated or incur additional costs for balancing merchandise inventories among multiple fulfillment facilities. Further, we currently anticipate that we will need to expand and upgrade our fulfillment operations in the future to accommodate increases in customer orders, increased demand for personalized products or changes in available technology. If we fail to successfully manage, expand or make necessary upgrades to our fulfillment and distribution operations in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. If we do not manage our inventory levels successfully, our operating results may be adversely affected. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. Rapidly changing trends in consumer tastes for gift items expose us to significant inventory risks, particularly during our third fiscal quarter when inventory levels are highest due to the holiday shopping season. Consumer preferences can change between the time we order a product and the time it is available for sale. We base our product selection on our projections of consumer tastes and preferences in a future period, and we cannot guarantee that our projections of consumer tastes and preferences will be accurate. It is critical to our success that we accurately predict consumer tastes and stock our product offerings in appropriate quantities. In the event that one or more products do not achieve widespread consumer acceptance, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns, which could reduce our net sales and gross margins. This risk may be greatest in the third fiscal quarter of each year, after we have significantly increased inventory levels for the holiday shopping season. In addition, to the extent that demand for our products increases over time, we may be forced to increase inventory levels. Any such increase would require the use of additional working capital and subject us to additional inventory risks. Further, our failure to stock sufficient quantities of popular products would likely cause us to miss revenue opportunities and could cause our customers to become dissatisfied and look to our competitors for their gift items, which could also harm our business and reputation. In prior periods, some of our popular items were not stocked in quantities sufficient to meet the demand for such items, which likely led to missed sales opportunities. If we fail to stock popular products in sufficient quantities or if we overstock products, our business, financial condition and operating results would be affected adversely. We may have difficulty in product sourcing. A significant portion of our products are unique designs manufactured by third-parties. However, since we do not have long-term arrangements with any manufacturer, vendor or distributor that would guarantee the availability of products from year to year, we do not have a predictable or guaranteed supply of these products in the future. If we are unable to provide our customers with continued access to popular products, our operating results will be harmed. In addition, we may not receive products from our suppliers in a timely manner or we may receive products from our suppliers that do not meet our quality standards. From time to time, we receive products from suppliers that are of insufficient quality to provide to our customers. Generally the supplier is able to quickly rectify the problem, but occasionally we have been unable to obtain replacement products quickly enough to fulfill all customer orders for such product in a timely manner, particularly with respect to items sourced overseas which tend to have longer delivery lead time requirements. If we do not receive products from our suppliers in a timely manner or if we receive products from our suppliers that do not meet our high quality standards and we are unable to obtain suitable replacement products in a timely manner, our reputation and our operating results could be harmed. Further, customers who do not receive their products in a timely manner may look to our competitors for their gift items. Many of our products are sourced overseas. While products sourced overseas typically have lower costs, our product margins may be offset by an increase in inbound freight costs. As security measures around shipping ports increase, these additional costs may result in higher inbound freight costs. Increasing competition for overseas production resources, particularly in China, may result in higher than anticipated product costs and lower product margins. Furthermore, in recent years, U.S. companies were subject to port strikes which delayed the delivery of goods. We cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including increased 11 Table of Contents tariffs or quotas, embargoes, and customs restrictions, against items that we offer or intend to offer to our customers, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of items available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sourcing operations also may be adversely affected by political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions. Any disruption or delays in, or increased costs of, importing our products would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Our headquarters, and the majority of our infrastructure, including computer servers, are located in San Francisco, California, an area that is susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our distribution facility, located in Lockbourne, Ohio, houses substantially all of our product inventory and is the location from which substantially all of our orders are shipped and our customer sales and service facility is located in San Diego, California. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable problems could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, as our inventory and distribution facility is located in an area that is susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. We have no formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. In the event that an earthquake, natural disaster or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. If we fail to manage our growth and successfully integrate our management team, our business will suffer. We anticipate that future expansion, including the possible acquisition of third-party assets, technologies or businesses, may be required to address market opportunities and desired growth in our customer base. Prior expansion has placed, and any future expansion would likely place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Some of our officers and senior management personnel have no prior senior management experience at public companies. We have experienced significant turnover among our executive officers in recent years and several of our executive officers have only been with the Company for a short period of time. In addition, we have hired a number of key managerial, merchandising, technical, finance, accounting and operations personnel in the recent past. As a result, key members of our management and employee team are still in the process of being integrated into our operations. Additionally, we need to properly implement and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, including the increased internal controls and procedures required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Moreover, if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may in the future make investments in, or possibly acquire, assets, technologies or businesses that we believe are complementary to ours. Any such investment or acquisition may further strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. These difficulties could disrupt or make it more difficult to plan and forecast our business, distract our management and employees or increase our costs. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, including integration of new personnel, implement proper controls and systems in an efficient manner, or successfully integrate any assets, technologies or businesses that we may acquire, or if we acquire assets, technologies or business that do not prove complimentary to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be affected adversely. We experience intense competition in the rapidly changing retail gift market. We operate in a highly competitive environment. We principally compete with a variety of department stores, Internet retailers, specialty retailers and other catalog merchants that offer products similar to or the same as our products. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our net revenues and results of operations. We expect competition to 12 Table of Contents intensify in the future because current and new competitors can enter our market with little difficulty and can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of other companies, including: • other online retailers, such as Amazon.com and eBay • major department stores, such as Macy’s, Bloomingdale’s, Neiman Marcus and their online storefronts • physical and online stores and catalog retailers that sell popular gift items such as Pottery Barn, Brookstone, The Sharper Image, Tiffany’s, Harry & David, J Crew, 1-800-Flowers and Williams-Sonoma • Internet portals and online service providers and other comparison shopping sites, such as AOL, Yahoo! and Google. Many of our traditional store-based, catalog-based and online competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer or user bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater resources, particularly financial and marketing resources. Many of these competitors can devote substantially more resources to website development and catalog retailing than we can. In addition, large, well-established and well-financed entities may establish more robust online sales operations in the future. Our competitors may be able to secure products from vendors on more favorable terms, provide popular products to which we do not have access, fulfill customer orders more efficiently and adopt more aggressive pricing or inventory availability policies than we can. The U.S. retail industry, the specialty retail industry in particular, and the online commerce sector are highly competitive, dynamic in nature and have undergone significant changes over the past several years and will likely continue to undergo significant changes. Our ability to anticipate and respond successfully to these changes is critical to our long-term growth and we cannot assure you that we will anticipate and respond effectively to changes in the retail industry and online commerce sectors. If we are unable to maintain or increase our market share or compete effectively in the retail gift market, our business, financial condition and operating results would be affected adversely. If we do not successfully expand our website and order processing systems or respond to rapid technological changes, we could lose customers and our net revenues could decline. If we fail to upgrade our website in a timely manner to accommodate higher volumes of traffic, our website performance could suffer and we may lose customers. In addition, if we fail to expand the computer systems that we use to process and ship customer orders and process customer payments, we may not be able to fulfill any potential growth in customer orders successfully. As a result, we could lose customers and our net revenues could decline. Further, to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our online store. The Internet and the online commerce industry are subject to rapid technological change. If competitors introduce new features and website enhancements, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing website and systems may become obsolete or unattractive. Developing and enhancing our website and other systems entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or we may fail to adapt our website, our transaction processing systems and our computer network to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unsuccessful in upgrading our systems to accommodate higher traffic or developing or implementing new technologies that enable us to meet evolving industry standards and remain competitive, our operating results would be seriously harmed. We are currently in the process of implementing new website and inventory planning software systems. Also, we are in the process of modifying certain internal processes for the purpose of improving our productivity and making our operations more cost efficient. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in these efforts. Possible cost overruns in these implementation efforts may result in higher than anticipated capital expenditures and delays in or other problems arising out of these implementations could lead to customer dissatisfaction. If we do not successfully and cost-effectively implement one or more of these intended upgrades or modified processes or if we do not achieve desired efficiencies or cost savings as a result of these changes or if attempts to enhance our website are unsuccessful or are not appealing to our customers, our business and operating results could be harmed, perhaps significantly. 13 Table of Contents Delivery of our merchandise could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control, and we could lose customers as a result. As timely gift delivery is essential to our customer’s satisfaction, any delay disruption or inaccuracy in order, fulfillment, personalization, or delivery for any reason, particularly during the holiday shopping season, could cause us to lose customers and negatively affect our business and reputation. In addition, we rely upon third-party carriers for timely delivery of our product shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and delays due to factors that are beyond our control, including employee strikes and inclement weather. The loss of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our current and future operations and prospects. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management and other key personnel. Three of our former officers, Gary Korotzer, our Chief Marketing Officer, Polly Boe, our Chief Financial Officer and Ken Constable, our President and Chief Executive Officer each resigned from RedEnvelope during fiscal 2007. Following Mr. Constable’s departure, John Pound, who has been a Director since August 2005 and Chairman of the Board since February 2007, has assumed the role of Executive Chairman. The role of Chief Financial Officer has been filled by William Gochnauer, who is a Member of Tatum LLC, a national firm that provides such executive services. We are not currently engaged in a search for a full-time Chief Financial Officer. In April 2007, we hired Scott Sanborn as our Chief Marketing Officer to fill the position formerly held by Gary Korotzer. In June 2007, Scott Loly resigned as Vice President of Merchandising and this role has been filled by Suzanne Ellis, who was formerly a Director of Merchandising for the Company. We currently believe that these management changes will have no material adverse impact on our operations. Frank Buettner, our President and Chief Operating Officer has been with the Company for just over one year. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel. Our performance depends on our ability to retain and motivate other officers and key employees. The loss of the services of key personnel for any reason could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing and customer sales and service personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical, managerial, editorial, merchandising, marketing and customer sales and service personnel would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, competition is particularly intense for highly-qualified senior officers in our industry, and a variety of factors could make it difficult for us to attract the right candidates in the near term or at all. In the event that we cannot hire and retain qualified senior officers in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on seasonal and temporary employees during periods of peak activity and any failure by such employees to adequately perform their jobs could adversely affect our operations. We depend on temporary and seasonal employees to adequately staff our fulfillment facility and customer sales and service facilities during busy periods such as the holiday shopping season, including individuals responsible for gift personalization and packaging and responding to consumer inquiries. Temporary employees may not have the same levels of training or commitment as full-time employees and, as a result, may be more likely to provide unsatisfactory service. We cannot assure you that we will continue to receive adequate assistance from our temporary employees, or that we will continue to have access to sufficient numbers of competent temporary employees on a cost-effective basis, particularly during the holiday shopping season, which season is critical to our business. If we are unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer sales and service facilities, particularly during the holiday shopping season and other periods of increased activity or if our temporary and seasonal employees do not provide satisfactory service, our operations and sales during such periods could suffer, and our reputation could be harmed. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully manage the costs of our catalog operations or our catalogs fail to produce sales at satisfactory levels it could adversely affect our business. Our catalog has been an important tool for the acquisition and retention of customers. We believe that the success of our catalog as a cost-effective marketing tool depends on the following factors: • effective management of costs associated with the production and distribution of our catalog • achievement of adequate response rates to our mailings • displaying a mix of merchandise in our catalog that is attractive to our customers • production of aesthetically appealing catalogs • timely delivery of catalog mailings to our customers Producing and mailing our catalog entails substantial creative, paper, printing, postage and human labor costs. Increases in the costs of producing and distributing our catalog, including increases in postage rates or paper, photography, or printing costs, may reduce the margin on sales derived from our catalog. The U.S. Postal Service has recently increased its postage rates and is likely to continue to increase its postage rates in the future, which could significantly increase the aggregate cost of mailing our catalogs. As we incur nearly all of the costs associated with our catalogs prior to mailing, we are unable to adjust the costs being incurred in connection with a particular mailing to reflect the actual performance of the catalog. In addition, response rates to our mailings and, as a result, revenues generated by each mailing, are affected by factors such as constantly changing consumer preferences and our ability to include a product assortment that satisfies those preferences, economic conditions, the timing and mix of catalog mailings, the timely delivery by the postal system of our catalog mailings, and changes in our merchandise mix, several or all of which may be outside of our control. In recent periods, we have experienced slower growth in revenues from our catalog channel than in our online channels and we expect this trend towards slower catalog growth to continue. If we were to experience an increase in the costs associated with producing or delivering our catalogs or a delay in distributing our catalogs or if our catalogs fail to produce sales at satisfactory levels, our operating results would be adversely affected. If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose customers. Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our call center. Any material disruption or slowdown in our order processing systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent customer service representatives, which is essential in creating a favorable interactive customer experience. If we are unable to continually provide adequate staffing for our customer service operations, our reputation could be seriously harmed. In addition, we cannot assure you that email and telephone call volumes will not exceed our present system capacities. If this occurs, we could experience delays in placing orders, responding to customer inquiries and addressing customer concerns. Because our success depends in large part on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer sales and service or adequately staff our customer sales and service operations would likely impair our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. If the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights is inadequate, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, partners, suppliers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. In addition, in many jurisdictions trademark law does not protect the trademark owner from third parties using domain names that are similar to the trademark owner’s registered trademarks and logos. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of 15 Table of Contents our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our business would be harmed. We also rely substantially on technologies that we license from third parties. These licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. As a result, we may be required to develop or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or at greater cost, or we may be prevented from providing features or functionality on our website that our customers and potential customers desire, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Intellectual property and other claims against us could be costly and could impair our business. Other parties may assert infringement or unfair competition claims against us. In the past, we have been subject to claims or received notices from third parties alleging that our trademarks or product offerings and business processes infringe proprietary rights held by them. From time to time we also receive claims, and have previously been a defendant in a lawsuit alleging that our Internet marketing program and website operations infringe patents held by third parties. We cannot predict whether third parties will assert claims of infringement against us, or whether any past, present or future claims will prevent us from offering popular products or operating our business as planned. If we are forced to defend against third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could distract technical and management personnel, or result in product shipment delays. If an infringement claim is determined against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or ongoing royalties. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license technology to us, we may be required to develop non-infringing intellectual property or enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third-party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to develop suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar intellectual property on reasonable terms on a timely basis, it could significantly harm our business. In addition, it is possible that, in the course of our business, we could be subject to legal claims or proceedings involving consumer, employment, stockholder, contract, product liability or other matters. If we are required to defend against a legal claim or deem it necessary or advisable to initiate a legal proceeding to protect our rights, the expense and distraction of such a claim or proceeding, whether or not resolved in our favor, could adversely affect our business. Further, if a claim or proceeding were resolved against us or if we were to settle any such dispute, we could be required to pay damages or refrain from certain activities, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, any product liability claims could negatively affect our brand and our reputation. Poor economic conditions may constrain discretionary consumer spending on retail products such as ours. Consumer spending patterns, particularly discretionary spending for products such as ours, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, stock market volatility, wars, threats of war, acts of terrorism, wage rates, interest rates, inflation, taxation, and consumer confidence. General economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, may adversely affect our business results and the market price of our common stock. Our business and revenues have been, and in the future could be, negatively affected by poor economic conditions and any related decline in consumer demand for discretionary items such as our products. We face uncertainty in the degree to which poor performance in the retail industry, decreased consumer confidence or any economic slowdown will negatively affect demand for our products. We may not be able to accurately anticipate the magnitude of these effects on future quarterly results, which could seriously harm our financial condition. As we do not have large cash reserves, we may not be able to survive an extended recession or sluggish economy. 16 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs or experience delays in product availability due to regulations applicable to the sale of food products and live plants, which may hurt our business. We currently offer select food items and live plants for sale to our customers. Applicable federal, state or local regulations may cause us to incur substantial compliance costs or delay the availability of those products. In addition, any inquiry or investigation from a regulatory authority could have a negative impact on our reputation. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition. Our charter documents, Delaware law and third-party contractual restrictions may make an acquisition of us more difficult, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are a Delaware corporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contains certain provisions that may make a change in control of our company or the removal of incumbent directors more difficult. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that may have the same effect, including the elimination of the ability of stockholders to call special meetings or vote by written consent, the elimination of cumulative voting for directors, and procedures requiring advance notification for stockholder proposals. The elimination of cumulative voting substantially reduces the ability of minority stockholders to obtain representation on the Board of Directors. Also, the Board of Directors may determine at some point in the future that it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to enact additional measures to protect the Company against unsolicited takeovers or stock accumulation. Such provisions or the enactment of additional protective measures may discourage potential acquirers from making a bid for our company, or make an acquisition of us or a tender offer to our stockholders more difficult, even if such acquisition or tender offer would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may reduce any premiums paid to stockholders for their common stock. Additionally, under the terms of our loan and security agreement, we are subject to covenants that could restrict or place limitations on our ability to be acquired by another company during the term of the loan and security agreement, even if such acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders hold a substantial portion of our stock, which may lead to conflicts with other stockholders over corporate transactions and other corporate matters. Our directors, executive officers and current beneficial holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock own a significant portion of our stock. These stockholders, acting together, are able to control or influence significantly all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as mergers or other business combinations. This control may delay, deter or prevent a third-party from acquiring or merging with us and limit the ability of smaller stockholders to influence corporate matters. The security risks of online commerce, including credit card fraud, may discourage customers from purchasing goods from us. As of April 1, 2007, approximately 77% of our customer orders were placed through our website. In order for the online commerce market to function and develop successfully, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data. Any breach could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our website and choose not to purchase from us. Although we take the security of our systems very seriously, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information and information of our customers. If a person is able to 17 Table of Contents circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to prevent fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our net revenues and gross margin. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. If we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, our liability for these transactions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Existing or future government regulation could harm our business. There are an increasing number of laws specifically directed at the conduct of business on the Internet. Moreover, due to the increasing use of the Internet, many additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at the state and federal levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as freedom of expression, pricing, consumer privacy, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, adult-oriented content, defamation, intellectual property rights, identity theft and information security. Applicability of existing laws to the Internet relating to issues such as trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy could also harm our business. For example, United States and international laws regulate our ability to use customer information and to develop, buy and sell mailing lists. Many of these laws, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the recent federal law regulating the commercial use of e-mail (popularly known as “CAN-SPAM”), are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. The restrictions imposed by, and costs of complying with, current and possible future laws and regulations related to our business could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. States and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. These measures impose various and inconsistent requirements on companies collecting and maintaining personal information about consumers. We collect personal information from consumers in the course of doing business. These multiple laws and regulations introduce a considerable measure of uncertainty to our compliance efforts. Such measures will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or we fail to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of the new laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. Further, federal and state laws place restrictions on email marketing that could make it more difficult for us to acquire new customers, or to obtain repeat purchases from prior customers through inexpensive electronic marketing methods. The federal CAN-SPAM Act, for example, requires every commercial e-mail message to include an “opt-out” mechanism and requires all senders to comply with their recipients “opt out” requests. It also requires senders to label all commercial e-mail messages as advertisements or solicitations. These requirements may reduce the effectiveness of our e-mail marketing activities. If any current or future law requires us to eliminate or curtail our email marketing efforts, our ability to obtain new customers and increase revenues could be adversely affected or we could incur greater marketing costs, either of which could harm our business. While we intend to comply with applicable law regarding email marketing, there is no assurance that we will not incur fines or other liability as a result of an inadvertent violation of such a law. In addition, because our website is accessible over the Internet in multiple states and other countries, we may be subject to their laws and regulations or may be required to qualify to do business in those locations. We are qualified to do business only in California and Ohio at present. Our failure to qualify in a state or country where we are required to do so could subject us to taxes and penalties and we could be subject to legal actions and liability in those jurisdictions. The restrictions or penalties imposed by, and costs of complying with, these laws and regulations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to enforce contracts and other obligations in states and countries in which we are not qualified to do business could be hampered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, an important 18 Table of Contents aspect of the new Internet-focused laws is that where federal legislation is absent, states have begun to enact consumer-protective laws of their own and these can vary significantly from state to state (and country to country). Thus, it is difficult for any company to be sufficiently aware of the requirements of all applicable state laws and it is also difficult or impossible for any company to comply fully with the sometimes inconsistent standards and requirements set by various states. In addition to the consequences that could result from violating one or more state laws (or the laws of any other country), the costs of attempting to comply could be considerable. Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of our Internet business or our marketing efforts. We are subject to increasing regulation relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future suppliers and customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing our business. Several states have enacted several new laws that require all commercial website operators that collect personal information about residents in their states to adopt and post a privacy policy that meets certain specified criteria. Any failure to comply with these new laws could subject us to civil penalties, injunctions, and/or lawsuits. The Federal Trade Commission has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under 13 years of age. Bills proposed in Congress would extend online privacy protections to adults. Moreover, legislation in the United States and existing laws in other countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by companies. These data protection regulations and enforcement efforts may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. Further, any violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties and damages and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 