Item 1A. Risk Factors. Industry Risks Cyclical demand in the automotive industry may adversely affect our business. Most of our sales are to automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or direct (Tier 1) suppliers. Therefore, our financial performance is subject to conditions in the automotive industry, which are cyclical and depend on conditions in the U.S. and global economies generally. A weakening of the U.S. and global economies or an increase in interest rates could reduce consumer spending and demand for automobiles and light trucks, leading to decreased production by our customers, which could hurt our sales and financial performance. Our sales are also impacted by our customers’ inventory levels and production schedules. Due to the present uncertainty in the economy, some of our customers have been reducing their forecasts for new vehicle production. Decreases in 10 Table of Contents demand for new vehicles may have a significant negative impact on our business. Because we have high fixed production costs, relatively small declines in our customers’ production could significantly reduce our profitability. We depend on a small number of significant customers. We derived approximately 48% of our fiscal 2006 sales from direct sales to Ford, DaimlerChrysler, and General Motors and their subsidiaries. In addition, some of our other sales are to Tier 1 suppliers who incorporate our components into products which they sell to these three OEMs. Neither we nor our Tier 1 customers may be able to maintain our current relationships with these customers or continue to supply them at current levels. Furthermore, these customers have had declining market share in North America in recent years, resulting in reduced demand. In addition, our sales are dependent on particular vehicle platforms that include our products. If production of those platforms were to be decreased or discontinued, our sales would be reduced. The loss of a significant portion of sales to Ford, DaimlerChrysler, or General Motors or their Tier 1 suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain of our customers have filed for bankruptcy protection in the past year and additional customers may file for bankruptcy protection in the future. This could result in adverse changes in these customers’ production levels, pricing, and payment terms and could limit our ability to collect receivables, which could harm our business or results of operations. Our customers’ cost cutting efforts and purchasing practices may adversely impact our business. Our customers are continually seeking to lower their costs of manufacturing. These cost reductions may include relocation of our customers’ operations to countries with lower production costs. Customers might find it less costly to manufacture themselves at relocated facilities or to rely on foreign suppliers with lower production costs, whether or not the customers’ production is relocated, either of which may have a significant negative impact on our business. Changes in our customers’ purchasing policies or payment practices could also have an adverse effect on our business. For example, during fiscal 2004, two of our major customers discontinued early payment programs in which we participated, which negatively impacted our liquidity. We operate in the highly competitive automotive supply industry. The automotive supply industry is highly competitive, both domestically and internationally, with a large number of suppliers competing to provide products to a relatively small number of OEMs. Competition is based primarily on price, quality, timely delivery, and overall customer service. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Further consolidation in the industry may result in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. In addition, some of our competitors are former divisions or subsidiaries of our customers. We may not be able to compete successfully with these or other companies. In addition, there is a trend toward OEMs expanding their business relationships with a smaller number of “preferred” suppliers. If we are not designated a preferred supplier, we could lose sales to competitors that are preferred suppliers. Furthermore, the rapidly evolving nature of the automotive industry may attract new entrants, particularly in low cost countries such as China. We may not be able to offer our products at prices competitive with those of competitors in low-cost countries and pricing pressure created by such competitors could reduce our sales and margins. These factors have led to a re-sourcing of certain future business to foreign competitors in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, any of our competitors may develop superior products, produce similar products at a lower cost than us, or adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully. A number of our competitors have been forced to seek bankruptcy protection partially as a result of highly competitive market conditions in our industry. 11 Table of Contents Financial Risks We have substantial levels of debt and debt service that will divert a significant amount of cash from our business operations. We have substantial levels of debt, including debt under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 11, 2005 and related documents (Credit Facility), our 101/2% senior notes due 2010 (Senior Notes) and other debt instruments. As of January 31, 2007, we had $714.3 million of total indebtedness and $38.4 million of cash and cash equivalents. Although we must either amend or refinance our Credit Facility in order to complete the recently announced Rights Offering (Rights Offering) to our common stockholders (see Note 24, Subsequent Events, to the consolidated financial statements included herein) and we will use the proceeds of the Rights Offering to repurchase our Senior Notes, following the Rights Offering, we will continue to have substantial levels of debt outstanding and we may incur significant additional debt in the future. The degree to which we will be leveraged could have important consequences, including: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to debt service and therefore not available for our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less debt; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or access additional funds under our Credit Facility for capital expenditures, working capital, or general corporate purposes. Restrictions and covenants in the indenture governing the Senior Notes and the Credit Facility limit our ability to take certain actions and may limit access to our revolving credit facility. Our Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes and our other debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, will restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to: • declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem, or purchase debt, including the Senior Notes; • incur liens and engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • make loans and investments; • incur additional debt, including borrowings under our Credit Facility; • amend or otherwise alter certain debt documents; • make capital expenditures; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, and asset sales; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • alter the business we conduct. In addition, the Credit Facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants and we may become subject to additional or more restrictive covenants in connection with future borrowing. Although we must either amend or refinance our Credit Facility and we will use the proceeds of the Rights Offering to repurchase our Senior Notes, any new borrowings would be expected to include similar financial and restrictive covenants. These covenants may prevent us from accessing any revolving credit line and may limit our liquidity. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we are unable to comply with the covenants under any of our debt instruments, there would be a default which could result in acceleration of our debt and potentially our bankruptcy. Additionally, a default resulting from our failure to comply 12 Table of Contents with such covenants or the applicable borrowing conditions would preclude us from borrowing additional funds. Compliance with the covenants could cause us to conduct our business, or to forgo opportunities, in such a manner as to materially harm our business. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to fund required capital expenditures and for that and other reasons we may need additional financing in the future, which we may be unable to obtain. Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures to acquire equipment needed to produce products for new customer programs, maintain existing equipment, and implement technologies to reduce production costs in response to customer pricing pressure. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our capital expenditure requirements. In that event, we may need to obtain additional financing or take other steps to reduce expenses or generate cash. In addition, lower sales or unanticipated expenses could give rise to additional financing requirements. We may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be required to make significant reductions in expenses and capital expenditures, which could significantly restrict our operations and limit our ability to enhance our products, fund capital investments, respond to competitive pressures, or take advantage of business opportunities. We may suffer future asset impairments and other restructuring charges, including write downs of goodwill or intangible assets. We record asset impairment losses when we determine that our estimates of the future undiscounted cash flows from an operation will not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of that facility’s building, fixed assets, and production tooling. During fiscal 2006 we recorded total asset impairment losses and other restructuring charges of $43.8 million and we may incur significant similar losses and charges with respect to other facilities in the future. In connection with our emergence from Chapter 11 and the application of fresh start accounting, we recorded significant increases in goodwill and intangible assets. At January 31, 2007 we had approximately $384 million in goodwill and other intangible assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are required to evaluate annually whether our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired. Any future write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our exposure to variable interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations may negatively affect our results. A portion of our debt, including our borrowings under the Credit Facility, bears interest at variable rates. Any increase in the interest rates will increase our expenses and reduce funds available for our operations and future business opportunities. Increases in interest rates will also increase the risks resulting from our significant debt levels. Due to the increase in our operations outside the United States, we have experienced increased foreign currency exchange gains and losses in the ordinary course of our business. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material impact on our financial condition as cash flows generated in other currencies will be used, in part, to service our dollar-denominated debt. This fluctuation could result in an increase in our overall leverage and could result in less cash flow available for our operations, capital expenditures, and repayment of our obligations. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect the value of our foreign assets as reported in U.S. dollars, and may adversely affect reported earnings and, accordingly, the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same market. In addition, changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Although we attempt to hedge against fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates, such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual results. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain trade credit with our suppliers. We currently maintain trade credit with certain of our key suppliers and utilize such credit to purchase significant amounts of raw material and other supplies with payment terms. As conditions in the automotive supply industry have become less favorable, key suppliers have been seeking to shorten trade credit terms or to require cash in advance for payment. If a significant number of our key suppliers were to shorten or eliminate our trade credit, our inability to finance large purchases of key supplies and raw materials would increase our costs and negatively impact our liquidity and cash flow. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability, recall, and warranty claims and other legal proceedings. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. The risk of product liability, recall, and warranty claims are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of automotive products, the failure of which could result in property damage, personal injury, or death. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms and this insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall involving our products. Such a recall would not be covered by our insurance. Furthermore, our customers can initiate a recall of our products without our agreement and offset their costs of the recall against payments due to us for other products. A successful product liability claim in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are involved in other legal proceedings, which could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations. Our pension and other postretirement employee benefits expense could materially increase. Certain of our current and former employees participate in defined benefit pension plans. The plans are currently underfunded. Declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially increase the amount by which the plans are underfunded, affect the level and timing of required contributions, and significantly increase our pension expenses and reduce profitability. We also sponsor other postretirement employee benefit plans that cover certain current and former employees and eligible dependents. We fund these obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis. Increases in the expected cost of the benefits, particularly health care, in excess of our assumptions could increase our actuarially determined liability and related expense along with future cash outlays. Our credit rating has been downgraded and we may experience further downgrades in the future, and the cost of amending or refinancing our Credit Facility may increase. Our debt is rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. These organizations have downgraded certain of our debt ratings in the last twelve months and may further downgrade our debt ratings in the future. While these actions do not impact our current cost of borrowing, they could significantly reduce our access to the debt markets and increase the cost of amending or refinancing our Credit Facility. If we are unable to amend or refinance our Credit Facility we will be unable to complete the Rights Offering and may be required to seek alternative means to de-leverage the Company, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to de-leverage the Company, our financial condition will be adversely affected. Operational Risks Increased cost of supplies and raw materials, especially steel and iron, could affect our financial health. Our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in the delivery of raw materials and supplies. The availability and price of these commodities are subject to market forces largely beyond our control. Fluctuations in prices or availability of these raw materials or supplies will affect our profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, if any of our 14 Table of Contents suppliers seek bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue their business as anticipated, the availability or price of raw materials could be adversely affected. In recent periods there have been significant increases in the global prices of steel, aluminum, and natural gas, which have had and may continue to have an impact on our business. Continued increases in the price of steel, aluminum, natural gas, or other key materials and supplies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Although we have been able to pass some of the supply and raw material cost increases onto our customers, competitive and marketing pressures may prevent us from doing so in the future. In addition, our customers are not contractually obligated to accept certain of these price increases. This inability to pass on price increases to our customers could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flow, and result in lower operating income and profitability. Unexpected equipment failures, delays in deliveries, or catastrophic loss at any of our manufacturing facilities could lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Equipment failure, interruption of supply, labor disputes, or other causes could significantly reduce production of our products, which would reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition, we generally produce our products on a “just in time” basis and do not hold large inventories. If production is interrupted at any of our manufacturing facilities, even if only temporarily or as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales, as well as expose us to claims for damages. Our manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, or violent weather conditions. We have in the past and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, power outages, delays in deliveries, or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have significant international operations that subject us to risks not faced by domestic competitors. Approximately 73% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 79% of the net sales of the Automotive Wheels segment in fiscal 2006 were from operations outside the United States. We expect sales from our international operations to continue to represent a substantial and growing portion of our business and that of the Automotive Wheels segment. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: • agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including foreign exchange controls; • foreign laws or regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate cash from foreign operations; • necessary export licenses or customs clearances may be difficult to obtain; • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce in foreign countries; • political or economic conditions or exposure to local social unrest, including any resultant acts of war, terrorism or similar events in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult; • in certain countries we are subject to nationwide collective labor agreements that we did not negotiate; • labor laws in certain countries may make it more difficult or expensive to reduce our labor force in response to reduced demand; and 15 Table of Contents • differing foreign tax structures may subject us to additional taxes or affect our ability to repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement our planned operational improvements or realize the benefits of those plans already implemented. As part of our ongoing focus on being a low-cost provider of high quality products, we continually analyze our business to further improve our operations and identify cost-cutting measures. If we do not identify and implement operational improvements or if implemented improvements do not generate the expected benefits, we may be unable to offer products at a competitive price and generate sufficient operating funds to service our debt or make necessary capital expenditures. If that were to happen, alternative sources of financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may not be able to timely or successfully launch new products. In order to effectively compete in the automotive supply industry, we must be able to launch new products to meet our customers’ demand. We may not be able to install and obtain customer approval of the equipment needed to produce products for new programs in time for the start of production. In addition, transitioning our manufacturing facilities and resources to full production under new product programs may impact production rates or other operational efficiency measures. Moreover, our customers may delay or cancel the launch of new product programs or actual production may be below planned quantities. Our failure to successfully launch new products, or a failure by our customers to successfully launch new programs in the quantities anticipated, could adversely affect our results. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train, and retain qualified engineering, managerial, technical, sales, and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of employees. As we implement measures to improve our cost structure, employee morale may suffer. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require and key personnel may leave and compete against us. We may be unsuccessful in replacing key managers who either resign or retire. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other experienced, senior employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan and strategic initiatives, cause us to lose customers and reduce our sales, or lead to the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property or third parties might assert that our technologies infringe on their intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to protect our intellectual property, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We are currently involved in litigation in which the plaintiff has asserted that we have infringed on its patents. This litigation, and possible future litigation, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and could adversely affect our business, whether or not we are ultimately successful. For more information on this litigation, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory requirements or competitive technologies. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. Certain of our products may become obsolete and we may not be able to 16 Table of Contents achieve the technological advances necessary for us to remain competitive. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development, and failure of products to operate properly. A high percentage of our customers’ employees and certain of our employees are unionized or covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many employees of our major customers and certain of our employees are unionized. Certain of our employees in the United States are represented by the United Steel Workers Union, all of whom are employed at our facility in Akron, Ohio. Negotiations with the United Steel Workers Union for a new union agreement is not expected until fiscal 2008. As is common in Mexico and many European jurisdictions, substantially all of our employees in Europe and Mexico are covered by country-wide collective bargaining agreements, which are subject to negotiations on an annual basis. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, a dispute between us and our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, significant percentages of the workforces at certain of our major customers are unionized. Strikes or labor disputes at a major customer could result in reduced production of vehicles incorporating our products. This would reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations during the affected periods. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We may not be in complete compliance with these permits at all times. If we fail to comply with these permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators and the fine or sanction could be material. The nature of our operations and the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination that may be present on our property, even if we did not know about or cause the contamination and even if the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal when they occurred. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 