Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 31, 2009. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included in its report on our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended January 31, 2009 an explanatory paragraph indicating substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, in January 2009, we favorably modified the leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio covenants under our New Credit Facilities for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and for each quarter of fiscal 2009. Absent the amendment, we would have been in default of our covenants as of January 31, 2009. In addition, we expect that we will not be in compliance with the covenants in future quarters. In accordance with EITF 86-30, we reclassified our debt to current as of January 31, 2009. The lenders under our New Credit Facility have waived defaults under our senior credit facility that result from our receipt of this going concern explanatory paragraph. However, we currently do not have sufficient funds to continue as a going concern through May 2009 and are engaged in discussions with representatives of the lenders under our New Credit Facility, the holders of our Notes, and others regarding a recapitalization of the Company and restructuring of our existing indebtedness through a Chapter 11 proceeding. The presence of the going concern explanatory paragraph and any 10 Table of Contents bankruptcy proceedings may adversely affect our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors, and employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects. In addition, if the bankruptcy court does not approve our proposed DIP Financing and any plan of reorganization we propose, or if we cannot reach an acceptable agreement with our creditors to recapitalize the Company and propose and implement a successful plan of reorganization, we may be unable to continue as a going concern, and we may be forced to discontinue operations and liquidate the Company. If we are unable to successfully recapitalize the Company and restructure our indebtedness under Chapter 11, we may be forced to liquidate the Company. We are currently engaged in discussions with the representatives of the lenders under our New Credit Facility, the holders of our Notes, and others regarding a recapitalization of the Company and restructuring of our existing indebtedness through a Chapter 11 proceeding. A majority of the lenders under our New Credit Facility have, subject to approval of the bankruptcy court in which we file petitions under Chapter 11, agreed to provide us with DIP Financing in an aggregate amount of up to $100 million ($80 million of which is committed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a commitment letter). There can be no assurance that the amounts of cash from operations, together with amounts available under the proposed DIP Financing, will be sufficient to fund our operations. In the event that cash flows and available borrowings under the proposed DIP Financing are not sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available or, if available, will be offered on acceptable terms. Failure to secure any necessary additional financing would adversely affect our operations and may even force us to discontinue operations. We expect to file for bankruptcy protection, and, if we do, our business and operations will be subject to various risks. A bankruptcy filing by us or any of our subsidiaries would subject our business and operations to various risks, including the following: • a bankruptcy filing would increase the difficulty of our obtaining additional financing and would likely result in the loss of a significant portion of our accounts receivable financing programs; • the coordination of a bankruptcy filing and operating under protection of the bankruptcy court would involve significant costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other professional advisors; • we will have difficulty obtaining and maintaining trade credit and payment terms with suppliers and contracts necessary to continue our operations and at affordable rates with competitive terms; • customers may move business to other suppliers, particularly if they experience any disruptions in our ability to deliver products; • transactions outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to the prior approval of the bankruptcy court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities; • we may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to motions made in the reorganization cases; • we may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and employees through the process of reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; • there can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations; • there can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully develop, prosecute, confirm, and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, equity holders, and other parties in interest; and 11 Table of Contents • our common stock is likely to cease to be listed on a national securities exchange, which will make it difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or to obtain an accurate quotation of the price of our common stock. In addition, we believe that our currently outstanding common stock will have no value and will be cancelled under any plan of reorganization we may propose under Chapter 11. We also believe that the holders of our Notes are unlikely to receive more than a de minimis distribution on account of their interests in the Notes and that such interests could be cancelled under any plan of reorganization we may propose under Chapter 11. There can be no assurance, however, that any agreement regarding the recapitalization and restructuring of the Company under Chapter 11 will be obtained on acceptable terms with the necessary parties. Should the bankruptcy court not approve our proposed DIP Financing, or should we be unable to develop, propose, and implement a successful plan of reorganization, we may be forced to discontinue operations and liquidate the Company. Our continuation as a going concern would be dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain approval of the proposed DIP Financing and to develop, obtain confirmation or approval of, and implement a comprehensive restructuring plan; generate cash from operations, maintain adequate cash on hand and obtain sufficient other financing during any Chapter 11 proceedings and thereafter; resolve ongoing issues with creditors and other third parties; and return to profitability. Even assuming a successful emergence from any Chapter 11 proceedings, there could be no assurance as to the long-term viability of all or any part of our business. In addition, a long period of operating under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code may exacerbate the potential harm to our business and further restrict our ability to pursue certain business strategies or require us to take actions that we otherwise would not. These challenges are in addition to business, operational, and competitive challenges that we would normally face even absent any Chapter 11 proceedings. During the pendency of any Chapter 11 proceedings, our financial results may be unstable and may not reflect historical trends. During the pendency of any Chapter 11 proceedings to which we may be subject, our financial results may fluctuate as they reflect asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments. As a result, our historical financial performance may not be indicative of our financial performance following the date on which we file voluntary petitions under Chapter 11. Further, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets or businesses and liquidate or settle liabilities, with court approval, for amounts other than those reflected in our historical financial statements. Any such sale or disposition and any comprehensive restructuring plan could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our historical consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of a comprehensive restructuring plan. Risks Related to our Business and the Automotive Industry Our business depends on the automotive industry, and reductions in the demand for new vehicles will adversely affect our business. Most of our sales are to automotive and commercial vehicle original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Therefore, our financial performance is subject to conditions in the automotive industry, which are cyclical and generally depend on conditions in the U.S. and global economies. In North America and elsewhere, the automotive industry is currently characterized by significant overcapacity, fierce competition, rapidly declining sales and production volumes, and high fixed costs. General Motors has indicated that there is substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern, and Chrysler has sought protection under federal bankruptcy laws. During the second half of fiscal 2008, the weakening of the U.S. and global economies and limited availability of commercial and consumer credit resulted in significant reductions in consumer and capital spending and in the demand for automobiles, light trucks, and commercial vehicles. These conditions have led to decreased production by our customers, which in turn have adversely affected our sales and financial performance during the fiscal year. Demand for new vehicles may be adversely affected by other factors that are beyond our control, such as interest rates, the availability of credit and levels of disposable income. Our sales are also affected by our customers’ inventory levels and production schedules. Because of the present uncertainty in the economy, some of our 12 Table of Contents customers have been reducing their forecasts for new vehicle production in future periods. Decreases in demand for new vehicles or in new vehicle production may have a significant negative impact on our business. Because we have high fixed production costs, relatively small declines in our customers’ production could significantly reduce our profitability. A prolonged downturn in the North American or European automotive industries or a significant change in product mix due to consumer demand could require us to further slow production in, or shut down, plants or incur impairment charges. We depend on a small number of significant customers. We derived approximately 29% of our fiscal 2008 sales from direct sales to Ford and General Motors and their subsidiaries globally and 12% of our fiscal 2008 sales from sales to these OEM’s in the U.S.. In addition, our five largest customers (Ford, General Motors, Renault/Nissan, Daimler, and Toyota) and their subsidiaries accounted for approximately 54% of our global sales in fiscal 2008. Ford and General Motors are currently facing significant financial difficulties, which could result in significantly reduced sales and receivables with these customers. Our sales also depend on the particular vehicle platforms that include our products. If production of those vehicle platforms were to be decreased or discontinued, our sales would be reduced. A Chapter 11 proceeding, particularly if the bankruptcy court does not approve our proposed DIP Financing, could result in the loss of a significant amount of sales and accounts receivables with our key customers. The loss of a significant portion of sales to any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, certain of our customers are currently facing significant financial challenges and may file for bankruptcy protection in the future. This could result in adverse changes in these customers’ production levels, pricing, and payment terms and could limit our ability to collect receivables, which could harm our business or results of operations. Our customers’ cost cutting efforts and purchasing practices may adversely impact our business. Our customers are continually seeking to lower their costs of manufacturing, particularly in light of their current financial challenges. These cost reductions may reduce the amount we receive for sales of our products and may include relocation of our customers’ operations to countries with lower production costs. Customers might find it less costly to manufacture themselves at relocated facilities or to rely on foreign suppliers with lower production costs, whether or not the customers’ production is relocated, either of which may have a significant negative impact on our business. Changes in our customers’ purchasing policies or payment practices could also have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in the highly competitive automotive supply industry. The automotive supply industry is highly competitive, both domestically and internationally, with a large number of suppliers competing to provide products to a relatively small number of OEMs. Competition is based primarily on price, quality, timely delivery, and overall customer service. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Further consolidation in the industry may result in fewer, larger suppliers who benefit from purchasing and distribution economies of scale. We may not be able to compete successfully with these or other companies. Furthermore, the rapidly evolving nature of the automotive industry may attract new entrants, particularly in low cost countries such as China. We may not be able to offer our products at prices competitive with those of competitors in low-cost countries and pricing pressure created by such competitors could reduce our sales and margins. These factors have led to a re-sourcing of certain future business to foreign competitors in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, any of our competitors may develop superior products, produce similar products at a lower cost than we do, or adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully. A number of our competitors have been forced to seek bankruptcy protection partially as a result of highly competitive market conditions in our industry. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain trade credit with our suppliers. We currently maintain trade credit with certain of our key suppliers and utilize such credit to purchase significant amounts of raw material and other supplies with payment terms and our ability to continue to do so is critical to our ability to maintain adequate liquidity. As conditions in the automotive supply industry have become less favorable, credit insurance, which is used by suppliers to manage their payment risk in connection with providing payment terms, has become significantly more expensive or unavailable. As a result, key suppliers have been seeking to shorten trade credit terms, reduce credit limits, or require cash in advance for payment. If we commence a Chapter 11 proceeding, our key suppliers may seek to further restrict or eliminate our ability to obtain trade credit, or they may require payment on more restricted terms, particularly if we are unable to obtain court approval of our proposed DIP Financing. If a significant number of our key suppliers were to shorten or eliminate our trade credit, our inability to finance large purchases of key supplies and raw materials would increase our costs and negatively impact our liquidity and cash flow, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition and on our ability to successfully restructure our existing indebtedness. Increased cost of supplies and raw materials could affect our financial health. Our business is subject to the risk of price increases and periodic delays in the delivery of raw materials and supplies. The availability and price of these commodities are subject to market forces largely beyond our control. Fluctuations in prices or availability of these raw materials or supplies will affect our profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. In addition, if any of our suppliers seek bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue their business as anticipated, the availability or price of raw materials could be adversely affected. In recent periods there has been significant volatility in the global prices of steel, aluminum, and natural gas, which have had an impact on our business. Continued volatility in the price of steel, aluminum, natural gas, or other key materials and supplies may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Although we have been able to pass some of the supply and raw material cost increases onto our customers in the past, current competitive and marketing pressures may prevent us from doing so in the future. In addition, our customers are not contractually obligated to accept certain of these price increases and, in light of current market conditions, they may be less likely to accept the increases currently and in the future than they have been in the past. Moreover, we sometimes use fixed-forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in the prices of certain commodities, which could result in our paying greater than market prices for these commodities. Where we pass through the costs of raw materials to our customers, customer pricing will decrease as raw material market prices decrease, regardless of the cost of our fixed forward contracts. For example, we generally enter into fixed-forward contracts for aluminum based on volume projections from our customers that coincide with the applicable pass through pricing adjustment periods. In recent periods, customer volumes have decreased significantly relative to their projections while at the same time market prices for aluminum have fallen sharply. As a result, we have fixed-forward contracts for aluminum based on projected volumes at prices that are well above current market levels, while the amount of the cost we can pass through to the customer has decreased to reflect the lower market cost. This potential inability to pass on price increases to our customers could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flow and result in lower operating income and profitability. The financial distress of our suppliers could harm our results of operations. The conditions in the automotive industry have adversely affected our supplier base. Continued financial distress among our supply base could lead to commercial disputes, write offs and possibly supply chain interruptions. The continuation or worsening of conditions in the supply base could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We have significant international operations that subject us to risks not faced by domestic competitors. Approximately 82% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2008 were from operations outside the U.S.. We expect sales from our international operations to continue to represent a substantial and growing portion of our business. Risks inherent in international operations include the following: • agreements may be difficult to enforce and receivables difficult to collect through a foreign country’s legal system; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles; • foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including foreign exchange controls; • foreign laws or regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate cash from foreign operations; • necessary export licenses or customs clearances may be difficult to obtain; • intellectual property rights may be more difficult to enforce in foreign countries; • political or economic conditions or exposure to local social unrest, including any resultant acts of war, terrorism, violence related to criminal activities such as drug trafficking, or similar events in the countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our earnings from operations in those countries; • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements may occur; • compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may be difficult; • in certain countries we are subject to nationwide collective labor agreements that we did not negotiate; • labor laws in certain countries may make it more difficult or expensive to reduce our labor force in response to reduced demand; • differing foreign tax structures may subject us to additional taxes or affect our ability to repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries; • fluctuations in exchange rates between the operating currencies of our international operations relative to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the value of our international assets and results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars, as well as the comparability of period-to-period results of operations; and • an inability to use the proposed DIP Financing to fund our foreign operations could result in local insolvency proceedings in certain foreign jurisdictions. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. Unexpected equipment failures, delays in deliveries, or catastrophic loss at any of our manufacturing facilities could lead to production curtailments or shutdowns. Equipment failure, interruption of supply, labor disputes, or other causes could significantly reduce production of our products, which would reduce our sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition, we generally produce our products on a “just in time” basis and do not hold large inventories. If production is interrupted at any of our manufacturing facilities, even if only temporarily or as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales, as well as expose us to claims for damages. Our manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, or violent weather conditions. We have in the past and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, power outages, and delays in deliveries, or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement our planned operational improvements or realize the benefits of those plans already implemented. As part of our ongoing focus on being a low-cost provider of high quality products, we continually analyze our business to further improve our operations and identify cost-cutting measures. If we do not identify and implement operational improvements or if implemented improvements do not generate the expected benefits, we may be unable to offer products at a competitive price and generate sufficient operating funds to service our debt or make necessary capital expenditures. If that were to happen, alternative sources of financing may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may not be able to timely or successfully launch new products. In order to effectively compete in the automotive supply industry, we must be able to launch new products to meet our customers’ demand. As a result of our currently liquidity situation and covenants limiting the amount of our capital expenditures, we may not be able to make the investments needed to launch production of new products. We may not be able to install and obtain customer approval of the equipment needed to produce products for new programs in time for the start of production. In addition, transitioning our manufacturing facilities and resources to full production under new product programs may impact production rates or other operational efficiency measures. Moreover, our customers may delay or cancel the launch of new product programs or actual production may be below planned quantities. Our failure to successfully launch new products, or a failure by our customers to successfully launch new programs in the quantities anticipated, could adversely affect our results. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Our successes depend in part on our ability to attract, hire, train, and retain qualified engineering, managerial, technical, sales, and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of employees. Our current financial condition creates uncertainty that may lead to an increase in unwanted attrition and may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified new employees. Additionally, as conditions in the automotive industry decline and we implement measures to improve our cost structure, employee morale may suffer. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require and key personnel may leave and compete against us. We may be unsuccessful in replacing key managers who either resign or retire. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other experienced, senior employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan, including the restructuring of our indebtedness, cause us to lose customers and reduce our sales, or lead to the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We might fail to adequately protect our intellectual property or third parties might assert that our technologies infringe on their intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights to protect our intellectual property, but this protection might be inadequate. For example, our pending or future patent applications might not be approved or, if allowed, they might not be of sufficient strength or scope. Conversely, third parties might assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We are currently involved in litigation in which the plaintiff has asserted that we have infringed on its patents. This litigation, and possible future litigation, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and could adversely affect our business, whether or not we are ultimately successful. For more information on this litigation, see the section entitled “Legal Proceedings.” Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory requirements or competitive technologies. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. Certain of our products may become obsolete and we may not be able to achieve the technological advances necessary for us to remain competitive. We are also subject to the risks generally 16 Table of Contents associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development, and failure of products to operate properly. A high percentage of our customers’ employees and certain of our employees are unionized or covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many employees of our major customers and certain of our employees are unionized. Certain of our employees in the U.S. are represented by the United Steel Workers Union, all of whom are employed at our facility in Akron, Ohio. Our current contract with the United Steel Workers Union expires in fiscal 2010. As is common in Mexico and many European jurisdictions, substantially all of our employees in Europe and Mexico are covered by country-wide collective bargaining agreements, which are subject to negotiations on an annual basis. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, a dispute between us and our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, significant percentages of the workforces at certain of our major customers and their suppliers are unionized. Strikes or labor disputes at a major customer or one of their key suppliers could result in reduced production of vehicles incorporating our products. This would reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations during the affected periods. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. We may not be in complete compliance with these permits at all times. If we fail to comply with these permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators and the fine or sanction could be material. The nature of our operations and the history of industrial uses at some of our facilities expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination that may be present on our property, even if we did not know about or cause the contamination and even if the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal when they occurred. We may suffer future asset impairments and other restructuring charges, including write downs of goodwill or intangible assets. We record asset impairment losses when we determine that our estimates of the future undiscounted cash flows from an operation will not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of that facility’s building, fixed assets, and production tooling. During fiscal 2008 we recorded asset impairment losses, other restructuring charges, and facility exit costs of $22.2 million and goodwill and other intangible asset impairments of $238 million and we may incur significant similar losses and charges in the future. In connection with our emergence from Chapter 11 in 2003 and the application of fresh start accounting, we recorded significant increases in goodwill and intangible assets. At January 31, 2009 we had approximately $112.4 million in other intangible assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are required to evaluate annually whether our goodwill and other intangible assets have been impaired or are not recoverable. Future market conditions may indicate that these assets are not recoverable based on changes in forecasts of future business performance and the estimated useful life of these assets, and this may trigger further write-downs of these assets. Any future write-off of a significant portion of our intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability, recall, and warranty claims and other legal proceedings. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of our business. The risk of product liability, recall, and warranty claims are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of automotive products, the failure of which could result in property damage, personal injury, or death. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms and this insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall involving our products. Such a recall would not be covered by our insurance. Furthermore, our 17 Table of Contents customers can initiate a recall of our products without our agreement and offset their costs of the recall against payments due to us for other products. A successful product liability claim in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are involved in other legal proceedings, which could adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations. Our pension and other postretirement employee benefits expense could materially increase. Certain of our current and former employees participate in defined benefit pension plans. The plans are currently underfunded. Declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially increase the amount by which the plans are underfunded, affect the level and timing of required contributions, and significantly increase our pension expenses and reduce profitability. The value of the securities held by the plans have decreased significantly during the past fiscal year, significantly increasing the amount by which the plans are underfunded. We also sponsor other postretirement employee benefit plans that cover certain current and former employees and eligible dependents. We fund these obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis. Increases in the expected cost of the benefits, particularly health care, in excess of our assumptions could increase our actuarially determined liability and related expense along with future cash outlays. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We have substantial levels of debt and debt service that divert a significant amount of cash from our business operations. We have substantial levels of debt, including debt under our New Credit Facility and Notes and other debt instruments. As of January 31, 2009 we had approximately $731.5 million of total indebtedness, which includes our debt, letters of credit, and bank guarantees, and our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $107.5 million. A Chapter 11 filing will result in a default under our New Credit Facilities, our Notes, and certain of our other debt obligations, and those debts will become automatically due and payable, subject to an automatic stay of any action to collect, assert, or recover a claim against us under applicable bankruptcy law. In addition to the debt under our New Credit Facility and under the Notes, we may incur significant additional debt in the future, including the proposed DIP Financing. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to debt service and therefore not available for our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less debt; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or access additional funds under our New Credit Facility for capital expenditures, working capital, or general corporate purposes. We may be unable to refinance, extend, or otherwise restructure our indebtedness. We are currently engaged in discussions with representatives of the lenders under our New Credit Facilities, the holders of our Notes, and others regarding a recapitalization of the Company and restructuring of our existing indebtedness through a Chapter 11 proceeding. A majority of the lenders under our New Credit Facilities have, subject to approval of the bankruptcy court in which we file petitions under Chapter 11, agreed to provide us with DIP Financing in an aggregate amount of up to $100 million ($80 million of which is committed pursuant to the terms and conditions of a commitment letter). There can be no assurance, however, that any agreement regarding a recapitalization and restructuring of the Company under Chapter 11 will be obtained on acceptable terms with the necessary parties. Should the bankruptcy court not approve our proposed DIP Financing, or should we be unable to develop, propose, and implement a successful plan of reorganization, we may be forced to discontinue operations and liquidate the Company. 18 Table of Contents Restrictions and covenants in the indenture governing the Notes and the New Credit Facility limit our ability to take certain actions, and we may be unable to comply with these obligations. Our New Credit Facility, the indenture under which the Notes have been issued, and our other debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants that affect our ability to operate our business, including, among other things, covenants that restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to: • make capital expenditures • declare dividends or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • cancel, prepay, redeem, or repurchase debt; • incur liens and engage in sale-leaseback transactions; • make loans and investments; • incur indebtedness; • amend or otherwise alter certain debt documents; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, and asset sales; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • alter the business we conduct. In addition, our New Credit Facility requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants. These covenants may prevent us from accessing any revolving credit line and may limit our liquidity. Compliance with the covenants could cause us to conduct our business, or to forgo opportunities, in such a manner as to materially harm our business. If we are unable to comply with the covenants under any of our debt instruments, there would be an event of default that could result in acceleration of our debt and potentially in our bankruptcy. Additionally, a default resulting from our failure to comply with such covenants or the applicable borrowing conditions would preclude us from borrowing additional funds. While the lenders under our New Credit Facility waived defaults under the New Credit Facility that result from our receipt of the going concern explanatory paragraph of our consolidated financial statements, there can be no assurance that they will waive any other possible defaults. A Chapter 11 filing will result in a default under our New Credit Facilities, our Notes, and certain of our other debt obligations, and those debts will become automatically due and payable, subject to an automatic stay of any action to collect, assert, or recover a claim against us under applicable bankruptcy law. In addition, the proposed DIP Financing contains certain highly restrictive covenants that require us, among other things, to maintain our corporate existence, make certain payments, perform our obligations under existing agreements, purchase insurance, and provide financial records. The proposed DIP Financing also limits or prohibits our ability to incur indebtedness, make prepayments on or purchase indebtedness in whole or in part, pay dividends, make investments, lease properties, create liens, consolidate or merge with another entity (or allow one of our subsidiaries to do so), sell assets, and acquire facilities or other businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these and other restrictive covenants in the proposed DIP Financing. Furthermore, any advances under the proposed DIP Financing are at the discretion of the lenders under the DIP Financing, and these lenders may decide not to provide additional financing. We do not generate sufficient cash flow to operate our business and fund required capital expenditures, and we will accordingly need additional financing in the future, which we may be unable to obtain. Our business requires us to make significant capital expenditures to acquire equipment needed to produce products for new customer programs, maintain existing equipment, and implement technologies to reduce production costs in response to customer pricing pressure. In addition, lower sales or unanticipated expenses could give rise to additional financing requirements. We currently do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund future capital expenditure requirements and operate our business. As a result, we will need to 19 Table of Contents successfully restructure our current debt in a Chapter 11 proceeding. To successfully recapitalize the Company and restructure our indebtedness, we will need the proposed DIP Financing to be approved by the bankruptcy court in which we may file petitions under Chapter 11. If available borrowings under the DIP Facility are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may be required to obtain additional financing or take other steps to reduce expenses or generate cash. There can, however, be no assurance that additional financing will be available or, if it is available, that it will be offered on acceptable terms. If we file for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, our access to additional financing will likely be very limited. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, and if we are unable to develop, propose, and implement a successful plan of reorganization, we will not be able to continue as a going concern and will be forced to liquidate the Company. Our exposure to variable interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations may negatively affect our results. A portion of our debt, including our borrowings under our New Credit Facility, bears interest at variable rates. Any increase in the interest rates will increase our expenses and reduce funds available for our operations and future business opportunities. Increases in interest rates will also increase the risks resulting from our significant debt levels. Due to the increase in our operations outside the U.S., we have experienced increased foreign currency exchange gains and losses in the ordinary course of our business. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material impact on our financial condition, since Euro-denominated debt is converted into U.S. dollars for financial reporting, and cash flows generated in other currencies will be used, in part, to service the dollar-denominated portion of our debt. This fluctuation could result in an increase in our overall leverage and could result in less cash flow available for our operations, capital expenditures, and repayment of our obligations. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect the value of our foreign assets as reported in U.S. dollars and may adversely affect reported earnings and, accordingly, the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell products in the same market. In addition, changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Although we attempt to hedge against fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates, such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, or cause significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual results. Our credit rating may be downgraded in the future. Our debt is rated by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Our debt ratings were recently downgraded and such ratings will likely be further downgraded upon commencement of Chapter 11 proceedings. While these actions do not affect our current cost of borrowing, they could significantly affect our ability to obtain or maintain trade credit with suppliers, reduce our access to the debt markets and increase the cost of incurring additional debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Should we be unable to maintain our current credit ratings, we could experience a reduction in credit terms, an increase in our borrowing costs or difficulty accessing capital markets. Such a development could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 