ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The statements contained in this Annual on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “plans,” “seeks,” “intends,” “will likely result,” “estimates,” “projects” or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Actual events or results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. The following text contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. This discussion is intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the PSLRA. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings with the SEC or communications regarding our business or operating results, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results so that our actual results in the future may differ materially from those expressed in prior communications. CERTAIN BANKRUTPCY CONSIDERATIONS Under the terms of our Plan, we expect our existing shareholders’ investment to be extinguished and intend to become a “private company.” If our Plan is confirmed and implemented, existing common stock will be cancelled and current shareholders will receive no distribution or other consideration in exchange for their shares. Furthermore, effective February 21, 2006, Curative’s existing common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market System. Since that date, Curative’s existing common stock has been quoted in the over-the-counter market. In connection with the reorganization to be effected by the Plan, we intend to deregister our existing securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and become a “private company” upon our emergence from Chapter 11. After such time, Curative’s obligation to file reports and other information under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, such as Forms 10-K and 10-Q, will be terminated. Operating in bankruptcy imposes significant risks on our operations. We cannot predict when we will confirm a plan of reorganization and successfully emerge from bankruptcy. The timing of our emergence from bankruptcy and the terms of our emergence may affect our relationships with our creditors, customers, suppliers and employees and have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our bankruptcy is protracted, our ability to continue operating in bankruptcy as a going concern and to emerge from bankruptcy will depend upon the following factors, among others: • our management’s ability to balance time and effort dealing with the reorganization and business operations at the same time in a prolonged continuation of our Chapter 11 Cases; • our ability to obtain additional financing, either as a part of the debtor-in-possession financing or otherwise, during the pendency of our Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms; • our ability to comply with and operate under the terms of the debtor-in-possession financing we obtained upon filing for bankruptcy and any cash management orders entered by the bankruptcy court from time to time; • our ability to pay costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the Chapter 11 Cases; • our ability to attract and retain management and other key employees; and 24 • our ability to maintain good customer and supplier relationships in light of developments in our bankruptcy proceedings and the terms of our emergence. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of the Plan. Even if we received the requisite acceptances to confirm the Plan, a number of factors could result in the Bankruptcy Court not confirming the Plan. Even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the Plan are fair and equitable to non-accepting classes. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that: • the Plan “does not unfairly discriminate” and is “fair and equitable” with respect to any non-accepting classes; • confirmation of the Plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization; and • the value of distributions to non-accepting holders of claims within a particular class under the Plan will not be less than the value of distributions such holders would receive if the debtors were liquidated under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Bankruptcy Court may determine that the Plan does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case it would not be confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we will be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against Curative ultimately would receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive under the Plan. For further information regarding the status of our Chapter 11 Cases, please see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY RISKS We are involved in litigation which may harm the value of our business. In addition to the Chapter 11 Cases discussed under the caption, “Planned Reorganization and Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings,” two of our subsidiaries, Apex and eBioCare, might be subject to potential indemnification liabilities to three independent retail pharmacies that previously did business with us. The indemnification claims are in connection with the DHS Audit related to the pharmacies’ medical billing for clotting factor supplied to the pharmacies by Apex and eBioCare, and the pharmacies’ medical billing for the anti-inhibitor product “FEIBA” supplied to the pharmacies by Apex and eBioCare. While liability with respect to these claims is not certain at this time, Apex and eBioCare believe that some amount of monetary loss is reasonably possible if the pharmacies assert and prevail on indemnification claims. Apex and eBioCare estimate that the range of loss may be anywhere from $0 to $39.3 million. In the normal course of our business, we are involved in lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations, including any arising out of services or products provided by or to our operations, personal injury claims, employment disputes and contractual claims, the outcome of which, in our opinion, should not have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. However, we may become subject to future lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations that could result in substantial costs and divert our attention and resources. 25 If we fail to comply with the terms of our settlement agreement with the government, we could be subject to additional litigation or other governmental actions which could be harmful to our business. On December 28, 2001, we entered into a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”), the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, the U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Florida and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General, in connection with all federal investigations and legal proceedings related to whistleblower lawsuits previously pending against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. These lawsuits included allegations that we improperly caused our hospital customers to seek reimbursement for a portion of our management fees that included costs related to advertising and marketing activities by our personnel and allegations that we violated the federal anti-kickback law and the federal False Claims Act. Under the terms of the settlement, the lawsuits were dismissed, the United States and the whistleblowers released us from the claims asserted in the lawsuits, and we agreed to pay to the United States a $9.0 million initial payment, with an additional $7.5 million to be paid over the next four years. As of December 31, 2005, a balance of approximately $0.4 million was outstanding on this obligation. Pursuant to the settlement, we have been required to fulfill certain additional obligations, including abiding by a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement, avoiding violations of law and providing certain information to the DOJ from time to time. As of December 17, 2003, we were released from part of our obligations under the Corporate Integrity Agreement. The independent review organization that conducts the audit of our records pursuant to the Corporate Integrity Agreement is no longer required to conduct the general compliance review. If we fail or if we are accused of failing to comply with the terms of the settlement, we may be subject to additional litigation or other governmental actions, including our Wound Care Management business unit being barred from participating in the Medicare program and other federal health care programs. In addition, as part of the settlement, we consented to the entry of a judgment against us for $28.0 million, less any amounts previously paid under the settlement, that would be imposed only if we fail to comply with the terms of the settlement, which, if required to be paid, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. The industry in which we operate is subject to extensive government regulation, and non-compliance by us, our suppliers, our customers or our referral sources could harm the business. The marketing, labeling, dispensing, storing, provision, selling, pricing and purchasing of drugs, health supplies and health services, including the biopharmaceutical products we provide, are extensively regulated by federal and state governments, and if we fail or are accused of failing to comply with laws and regulations, our business could be harmed. Our business could also be harmed if the suppliers, customers or referral sources we work with are accused of violating laws or regulations. The applicable regulatory framework is complex, and the laws are very broad in scope. Many of these laws remain open to interpretation and have not been addressed by substantive court decisions. The federal government or states in which we operate could, in the future, enact more restrictive legislation or interpret existing laws and regulations in a manner that could limit the manner in which we can operate our business and have a negative impact on our business. A substantial percentage of our revenue is attributable to the Medicaid and Medicare programs and has been significantly adversely impacted by recent changes in Medi-Cal reimbursement policies and will continue to be subject to changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative or regulatory initiatives aimed at reducing costs associated with various government programs. In the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 24.5%of our Specialty Infusion business unit’ revenues were derived from products and/or services provided to patients covered under various state Medicaid programs, most of which were from California, and approximately 10.3% of our Specialty Infusion business unit’s revenues were derived from products and/or services provided to patients covered under the Medicare program. Such programs are highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes and cost-containment measures that may limit and reduce payments to providers. In the recent past, many states experienced budget deficits that may require future reductions in health care related expenditures. State cost containment activity continued to focus heavily on reducing provider payments and controlling prescription drug spending. In December 2003, MMA was signed into federal law, providing for a Medicare prescription drug benefit and other changes to the Medicare program, including changes to payment methodologies for products we distribute that are covered by Medicare. Prior to MMA, Medicare reimbursement for many of the products we distribute was based on 95% of the products’ AWP. Under MMA, Medicare reimbursement for many of the products we distribute, including most physician-administered drugs and biologicals, was lowered to 80-85% of AWP effective January 1, 26 2004. This 2004 change did not affect Medicare reimbursement for blood-clotting factor products, which continued to be reimbursed at 95% of AWP during 2004. Effective January 1, 2005, the Medicare reimbursement methodology for blood-clotting factor products changed from an AWP-based system to one based upon ASP which has lowered Medicare reimbursement. In addition to the payment we receive from the Medicare program for blood-clotting factor, beginning in January 2005, we receive a separate payment of $0.14 for each unit of factor furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. It is possible that states and/or commercial payors may adopt the new Medicare reimbursement methodology. The conversion to a system based upon ASP could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, MMA changes the relationship between the Medicare and Medicaid programs such that we may receive less reimbursement in the future for individuals who receive benefits under both of these programs. In addition to these federal initiatives, many states are also making modifications to the manner with which they reimburse providers of pharmacy services. For example, in California, where approximately 5% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 was derived from blood-clotting products reimbursed by California state funded health programs, the state legislature in 2003 passed legislation that modified the reimbursement methodology for blood-clotting factor products under various California state funded health programs. Under the new reimbursement methodology, blood-clotting factor products are reimbursed based upon ASP, as provided by the manufacturers, plus 20%. Effective June 1, 2004, Medi-Cal implemented the ASP reimbursement methodology for blood-clotting factor products, which amounted to an approximate 30-40% cut from rates previously in effect. The implementation of the reduction in the reimbursement from Medi-Cal, and changes in regulations governing such reimbursement, has adversely impacted our revenues and profitability from the sale of products by us or by retail pharmacies to which we provide products or services for hemophilia patients who are Medi-Cal beneficiaries or beneficiaries of other state funded programs for hemophilia patients. In December, 2004, we and certain named individual plaintiffs entered into a Settlement Agreement which resolved both a lawsuit previously filed on behalf of two individual Medi-Cal recipients with hemophilia in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California against the State of California relating to the implementation of the new ASP reimbursement methodology, and a lawsuit previously filed by us in the Superior Court for the County of Sacramento relating to, among other things, the State of California’s failure to comply with certain applicable federal procedural requirements relating to the reimbursement rates. In return for dismissal of both lawsuits, DHS agreed to process, on a priority basis, all pending and future Medi-Cal, California Children’s Services and Genetically Handicapped Persons Program claims submitted by us. In addition, DHS agreed to expedite its efforts to implement electronic billing and payment for blood-clotting factor claims. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s accounts receivable collections from the State of California will improve as the result of this settlement agreement. A failure of the Company to improve its accounts receivable collections from the State of California could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the California legislature approved a proposal by the Governor of California to expand the Medi-Cal managed care program into additional counties and to phase in mandatory enrollment for parents and children who are Medi-Cal beneficiaries. The Governor’s proposal for mandatory enrollment of seniors and disabled individuals was rejected by the legislature, except for those individuals who may reside in an expansion county where a COHS model is proposed. Under the COHS model, all eligible Medi-Cal beneficiaries are mandatorily enrolled into the managed care plan, including seniors and persons with disabilities. We understand there may be significant concern by various constituencies over mandatory enrollment of medically fragile populations, and the outcome of these proposals is not certain at this time. We are in the process of evaluating the impact various federal and state legislative and related initiatives may have on our business, financial position and results of operations. We are in the process of evaluating the impact various federal and state legislative and related initiatives may have on our business, financial position and results of operations. 27 Our growth strategy includes the expansion of our branch pharmacy network by the opening of new branch pharmacy locations. An important element of the growth strategy of our Specialty Infusion business unit is the expansion of our branch pharmacy network through the opening of new branch locations. This expansion will involve significant planning and execution processes, such as identifying new markets, leasing facility space, hiring qualified personnel, obtaining payor contracts and obtaining patient referrals. In addition, we will need to invest capital in facility build out, computers, offices and other furniture and equipment. It is expected that these branch pharmacies will incur losses during their startup periods. Any failure by us to effectively execute this expansion strategy, including the successful transition of expansion branches from loss positions to profitability, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We have experienced rapid growth by acquisitions. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively or purchase or integrate new companies, our business could be harmed. Our growth strategy will likely strain our resources, and if we cannot effectively manage our growth, our business could be harmed. In connection with our growth strategy, we will likely experience an increase in the number of our employees in our branch network, the size of our programs and the scope of our operations. Our ability to manage this growth and to be successful in the future will depend partly on our ability to retain skilled employees, enhance our management team and improve our management information and financial control systems. As part of our growth strategy, we may evaluate acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions involve many risks, including the following: • Since the specialty pharmacy industry is undergoing consolidation, we may experience difficulty in identifying suitable candidates and negotiating and consummating acquisitions on attractive terms, if at all. • In the industry in which our Specialty Infusion business unit operates, there are customers who have a strong affiliation with their community-based representatives; accordingly, we may experience difficulty in retaining and assimilating the community-based representatives of companies it acquires. • Because of the relationships between community-based representatives and customers in certain of our product lines, the loss of a single community-based representative may entail the loss of a significant amount of revenue. • Our operational, financial and management systems may be incompatible with or inadequate to cost effectively integrate and manage the acquired business’ systems. As a result, billing practices could be interrupted, and cash collections on the newly acquired business could be delayed pending conversion of patient files onto our billing systems and receipt of provider numbers from government payors. • A growth strategy that involves significant acquisitions diverts management’s attention from existing operations. • Acquisitions may involve significant transaction costs which we may not be able to recoup. • We may not be able to integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately. In addition, we may become subject to litigation and other liabilities resulting from the conduct of an acquired business prior to its acquisition by us. We operate in a rapidly changing, consolidating and competitive environment. If we are unable to adapt quickly to these changes, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. The specialty infusion industry is experiencing rapid consolidation. We believe that technological and regulatory changes will continue to attract new entrants to the market. Industry consolidation among our competitors may increase their financial resources, enabling them to compete more effectively based on price and services offered. This could require us either to reduce our prices or increase our service levels, or risk losing market share. Moreover, industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete. 28 If we are unable to effectively execute our growth strategy, our ability to compete in a rapidly changing and consolidating specialty pharmacy industry may be negatively impacted. We may need additional capital to finance our growth and capital requirements, which could prevent us from fully pursuing our growth strategy. In order to implement our present growth strategy, we may need substantial capital resources and may incur, from time to time, short- and long-term indebtedness, the terms of which will depend on market and other conditions. Due to uncertainties inherent in the capital markets (e.g., availability of capital, fluctuation of interest rates, etc.), we cannot be certain that existing or additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain additional debt financing, we may incur additional interest expense, which may decrease our earnings, or we may become subject to contracts that restrict our operations. As a result, we could be unable to fully pursue our growth strategy. Further, additional financing may involve the issuance of equity securities that would dilute the interests of our existing shareholders and potentially decrease the market price of our common stock. An impairment of the significant amount of goodwill on our financial statements could adversely affect our results of operations. Our specialty infusion acquisitions resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill on our financial statements. The goodwill was recorded because the fair value of the net assets acquired was less than the purchase price. We may not realize the full value of this goodwill. As such, we evaluate, at least on an annual basis, whether events and circumstances indicate that all or some of the carrying value of goodwill is no longer recoverable, in which case we would write off the unrecoverable goodwill as a charge against our earnings. Due primarily to changes in the economics of the Specialty Infusion business unit, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge from continuing operations of $79.8 million in goodwill and $0.l million in other intangible assets, respectively, in the third quarter of 2005. We conducted an additional analysis as of December 31, 2005 and, based on our results, no further impairment was identified. We will continue to monitor our goodwill and intangibles for impairment indicators. As of December 31, 2005, we had goodwill of approximately $36.4 million, or 21% of total assets. We are highly dependent on our relationships with a limited number of biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical suppliers, and the loss of any of these relationships could significantly affect our ability to sustain or grow our revenues. The biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries are susceptible to product shortages. Some of the products that we distribute, such as factor VIII blood-clotting products and IVIG, have experienced shortages in the past due to the inability of suppliers to increase production to meet rising global demand. Although such shortages have ended, demand continues to grow. We are currently experiencing allocation restrictions of IVIG products. Suppliers were unable to increase production to meet rising global demand. We purchase the majority of our supplies of blood-clotting products from five suppliers, who we believe represent substantially all of the production capacity for recombinant factor VIII. In the event that one of these suppliers is unable to continue to supply us with products, it is uncertain whether the remaining suppliers would be able to make up any shortfall resulting from such inability. Our ability to take on additional customers or to acquire other specialty pharmacy or infusion services businesses with significant hemophilia customer bases could be affected negatively in the event we are unable to secure adequate supplies of our products from these suppliers. We have recently been put on allocation of product for IVIG by our largest supplier of IVIG product. Although we believe we will have sufficient supply of IVIG to service our existing customers, we may not be able to increase our market share of providing infusion services related to IVIG. There can be no assurance as to when the allocation for IVIG products will terminate. In addition, it is possible that we will experience price increases for these products. Although we believe the price increase for these products will be absorbed by our customers, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in passing on any such price increase. If these products, or any of the other drugs or products that we distribute, are in short supply for long periods of time, our business could be harmed. 29 Some biopharmaceutical suppliers in the specialty pharmacy industry have chosen to limit the number of distributors of their products. If we are not selected as a preferred distributor of one or more of our core products, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. We have identified a trend among some of our suppliers toward the retention of a limited number of preferred distributors to market certain of their biopharmaceutical products. If this trend continues, we cannot be certain that we will be selected and retained as a preferred distributor or can remain a preferred distributor to market these products. Although we believe we can effectively meet our suppliers’ requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with other specialty pharmacy companies to retain our position as a distributor of each of our core products. Adverse developments with respect to this trend could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to cultivate new or maintain established relationships with the physician referral sources, our revenues may decline. Our success, in part, is dependent upon referrals and our ability to maintain good relationships with physician referral sources. Physicians referring patients to us are not our employees and are free to refer their patients to our competitors. If we are unable to successfully cultivate new referral sources and maintain strong relationships with our current referral sources, our revenues and profits may decline. If additional providers obtain access to products we handle at more favorable prices, our business could be harmed. Because we do not receive federal grants under the Public Health Service Act, we are not eligible to participate directly in a federal pricing program administered by the Federal Health Resources and Services Administration’s Public Health Service, which allows certain entities with such grants, such as certain hospitals and hemophilia treatment centers, to obtain discounts on drugs, including certain biopharmaceutical products (e.g., hemophilia-clotting factor and IVIG) that represented approximately 47% of our total revenues at December 31, 2005. To the best of our knowledge, these entities benefit by being able to acquire, pursuant to this federal program, products competitive with our at prices lower than our cost for the same products. Our customers, where eligible, may elect to obtain hemophilia-clotting factor, or other products, from such lower-cost entities, which could result in a reduction of revenue to us. Recent investigations into reporting of average wholesale prices could reduce our pricing and margins. Many government payors, including Medicare (in 2004) and many state Medicaid programs, as well as a number of private payors, pay us directly or indirectly based upon a drug’s AWP. Most of our Specialty Infusion business unit’s revenues result from reimbursement methodologies based on the AWP of our products. The AWP for most drugs is compiled and published by third-party price reporting services, such as First DataBank, Inc., from information provided by manufacturers and/or wholesalers. Various federal and state government agencies have been investigating whether the published AWP of many drugs, including some that we distribute and sell, is an appropriate or accurate measure of the market price of the drugs. There are also several lawsuits pending against various drug manufacturers in connection with the appropriateness of the manufacturers’ AWP for a particular drug(s). These government investigations and lawsuits involve allegations that manufacturers reported artificially inflated AWPs of various drugs to third-party price reporting services, which, in turn, reported these prices to its subscribers, including many state Medicaid agencies who then included these AWPs in the state’s reimbursement policies. Moreover, as discussed above, as a result of MMA, Medicare reimbursement for many of the products we distribute, including most physician-administered drugs and biologicals, was lowered to 80-85% of AWP effective January 1, 2004. Although this 2004 change did not affect Medicare reimbursement for blood-clotting factor products, which continued to be reimbursed at 95% of AWP in 2004, effective January 1, 2005, the Medicare reimbursement methodology for blood-clotting factor products changed from an AWP-based system to a system based upon ASP (plus, in the case of hemophilia products, 6% plus an additional administrative fee most recently proposed by CMS to be $0.14 per unit), which has lowered Medicare reimbursement. It is possible that states and/or commercial payors may adopt the new Medicare reimbursement methodology. While we cannot predict the eventual results of any law changes, government proposals, investigations or lawsuits, if government or private payors revise their pricing based on 30 new methods of calculating AWP for products we supply, or implement reimbursement methodology based on a value other than AWP, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A reduction in the demand for our products and services could result in our reducing the pricing and margins on certain of our products. A number of circumstances could reduce demand for our products and services, including: • customer shifts to treatment regimens other than those we offer; • new treatments or methods of delivery of existing drugs that do not require our specialty products and services; • the recall of a drug or adverse reactions caused by a drug; • the expiration or challenge of a drug patent; • competing treatment from a new drug, a new use of an existing drug or genetic therapy; • drug companies ceasing to develop, supply and generate demand for drugs that are compatible with the services we provide; • drug companies stopping outsourcing the services we provide or failing to support existing drugs or develop new drugs; • governmental or private initiatives that would alter how drug manufacturers, health care providers or pharmacies promote or sell products and services; • the loss of a managed care or other payor relationship covering a number of high-revenue customers; or • the cure of a disease w service. Our business involves risks of professional, product and hazardous substance liability, and any inability to obtain adequate insurance may adversely affect our business. The provision of health services entails an inherent risk of professional malpractice, regulatory violations and other similar claims. Claims, suits or complaints relating to health services and products provided by physicians, pharmacists or nurses in connection with our Specialty Infusion and Wound Care Management businesses may be asserted against us in the future. Our operations involve the handling of bio-hazardous materials. Our employees, like those of all companies that provide services dealing with human blood specimens, may be exposed to risks of infection from AIDS, hepatitis and other blood-borne diseases if appropriate laboratory practices are not followed. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental infection or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and such liability could harm our business. Our operations expose us to product and professional liability risks that are inherent in managing the delivery of wound care services and the provision and marketing of biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical products. We currently maintain professional and product liability insurance coverage of $15.0 million in the aggregate. Because we cannot predict the nature of future claims that may be made, there can be no assurance that the coverage limits of our insurance would be adequate to protect us against any potential claims, including claims based upon the transmission of infectious diseases, contaminated products, negligent services or otherwise. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain professional or product liability insurance in the future on acceptable terms, if at all, or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. 31 We rely on key community-based representatives whose absence or loss could harm the business. The success of our Specialty Infusion business unit depends upon our ability to retain key employees known as community-based representatives, and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our community-based representatives are our chief contacts and maintain the primary relationship with our customers, and the loss of a single community-based representative could result in the loss of a significant number of customers. We do not have key person insurance on any of our community-based representatives. In addition, our success depends upon, among other things, the successful recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and we may not be able to retain all of our key management personnel or be successful in recruiting additional replacements should that become necessary. On October 21, 2005, six hemophilia service representatives in our Specialty Infusion business unit resigned. We estimate that the patients serviced by these employees represent approximately $25.0 million of revenue annually. While it is not certain that we will lose the full $25.0 million of revenue, it is likely that we will experience a significant decrease in revenue as a result of these resignations. We may experience the loss of other hemophilia services representatives in the future which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our inability to maintain a number of important contractual relationships could adversely affect our operations. Substantially all of the revenues of our Wound Care Management operations are derived from management contracts with acute care hospitals. At December 31, 2005, we had 109 management contracts (103 operating and 6 contracted). The contracts generally have initial terms of three to five years, and many have automatic renewal terms unless specifically terminated. The contracts often provide for early termination either by the client hospital if specified performance criteria are not satisfied, or by us under various other circumstances. Historically, some contracts have expired without renewal, and others have been terminated by us or the client hospital for various reasons prior to their scheduled expiration. During the year ended December 31, 2005, two hospital contracts expired without renewal, and an additional four hospital contracts were terminated by the client hospital prior to the scheduled expiration. Hospital contracts have been terminated for reasons such as hospital financial difficulties, Medicare reimbursement changes which reduced hospital revenues and the desire of the hospital to exit the business or manage it on its own. Our continued success is subject to, among other things, our ability to renew or extend existing management contracts and obtain new management contracts. Any hospital may decide not to continue to do business with us following expiration of its management contract, or earlier if such management contract is terminable prior to expiration. In addition, any changes in the Medicare program or third-party reimbursement levels which generally have the effect of limiting or reducing reimbursement levels for health services provided by programs managed by us could result in the early termination of existing management contracts and could adversely affect our ability to renew or extend existing management contracts and to obtain new management contracts. The termination or non-renewal of a material number of management contracts could harm our business. Our business will suffer if we lose relationships with payors. We are partially dependent on reimbursement from non-governmental payors. Many payors seek to limit the number of providers that supply drugs to their enrollees. From time to time, payors with whom we have relationships require that we and our competitors bid to keep their business and, therefore, due to the uncertainties involved in any bidding process, we either may not be retained or may have to reduce our margins to retain business. The loss of a significant number of payor relationships, or an adverse change in the financial condition of a significant number of payors, could result in the loss of a significant number of patients and harm our business. Changes in reimbursement rates which cause reductions in the revenues of our operations have adversely affected our Wound Care Management business unit. As a result of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, CMS implemented the Outpatient Prospective Payment System for most hospital outpatient department services furnished to Medicare patients beginning August 2000, under which a predetermined rate is paid to each hospital for clinical services rendered, regardless of the hospital’s cost. We believe the new payment system does not provide comparable reimbursement for services previously reimbursed on a reasonable cost basis, and we believe the payment rates for many services are insufficient for many of our hospital customers, resulting in revenue and income shortfalls for the Wound Care Center® programs we manage on behalf of the hospitals. As a result, during 2004, we renegotiated and modified many of our management contracts related to our Wound Care Management business unit, which has resulted in reduced revenue and income to us from those 32 modified contracts and, in numerous cases, contract termination. We expect that contract renegotiation and modification with many of our hospital customers will continue, and this could result in reduced revenues and income to us from those contracts and even contract terminations. These results could harm our business. The Wound Care Center® programs managed by our Wound Care Management business unit on behalf of acute care hospitals are generally treated as “provider based entities” for Medicare reimbursement purposes. This designation is required for the hospital-based program to be covered under the Medicare outpatient reimbursement system. Although we believe that the programs we manage substantially meet the current criteria to be designated “provider based entities,” a widespread denial of such designation could harm our business. We are subject to pricing pressures and other risks involved with third-party payors. In recent years, competition for patients, efforts by traditional third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs, and the increasing influence of managed care payors, such as health maintenance organizations, have resulted in reduced rates of reimbursement. Commercial payors, such as managed care organizations and traditional indemnity insurers, increasingly are requesting fee structures and other arrangements providing for health care providers to assume all or a portion of the financial risk of providing care. Changes in reimbursement policies of governmental third-party payors, including policies relating to Medicare, Medicaid and other federally funded programs, could reduce the amounts reimbursed to our customers for our products and, in turn, the amount these customers would be willing to pay for our products and services, or could directly reduce the amounts payable to us by such payors. The lowering of reimbursement rates, increasing medical review of bills for services and negotiating for reduced contract rates could harm our business. Pricing pressures by third-party payors may continue, and these trends may adversely affect our business. Also, continued growth in managed care and capitated plans have pressured health care providers to find ways of becoming more cost competitive. Managed care organizations have grown substantially in terms of the percentage of the population they cover and in terms of the portion of the health care economy they control. Managed care organizations have continued to consolidate to enhance their ability to influence the delivery of health care services and to exert pressure to control health care costs. A rapid increase in the percentage of revenue derived from managed care payors or under capitated arrangements without a corresponding decrease in our operating costs could harm our business. There is substantial competition in the specialty pharmacy, home infusion and wound care services industries, and we may not be able to compete successfully. Our Specialty Infusion business unit faces competition from other specialty infusion, specialty pharmacy, home infusion and disease management entities, general health care facilities and service providers, biopharmaceutical companies, pharmaceutical companies as well as other competitors. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, marketing staffs and experience in commercializing products and services than we have, and may be able to obtain better pricing from suppliers of products we purchase and distribute. The principal competition with our Wound Care Management business unit consists of specialty clinics that have been established by some hospitals or physicians. Additionally, there are some private companies which provide wound care services through a hyperbaric oxygen therapy program format. Furthermore, recently developed technologies, or technologies that may be developed in the future, are or may be the basis for products which compete with our specialty infusion business or chronic wound care services. We may not be able to enter into co-marketing arrangements with respect to these products or maintain pricing arrangements with suppliers that preserve margins, and we may not be able to compete effectively against such companies in the future. If we are unable to effectively adapt to changes in the health care industry, our business will be harmed. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the health care industry in the United States to fundamental change. We anticipate that Congress and state legislatures may continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery and payment systems and may in the future propose and adopt legislation effecting fundamental changes in the health care delivery system as well as changes to Medicare’s coverage and payments of the drugs and services we provide. 33 It is possible that legislation enacted by Congress or state legislatures could harm our business or could change the operating environment of our targeted customers (including hospitals and managed care organizations). Health care industry participants may react to such legislation by curtailing or deferring expenditures and initiatives, including those relating to our programs and services. It is possible that the changes to the Medicare program reimbursement may serve as precedent to possible changes in other payors’ reimbursement policies in a manner adverse to us. In addition, such legislation and regulatory changes could encourage integration or reorganization of the health care delivery system in a manner that could materially and adversely affect our ability to compete or to continue our operations without substantial changes. There are a number of state and federal laws and regulations that apply to our operations which could harm our business. A number of state and federal laws and regulations apply to, and could harm, our business. These laws and regulations include, among other things, the following: • The federal “anti-kickback law” prohibits the offering or solicitation of remuneration in return for the referral of patients covered by almost all governmental programs, or the arrangement or recommendation of the purchase of any item, facility or service covered by those programs. HIPAA created new violations for fraudulent activity applicable to both public and private health care benefit programs and prohibits inducements to Medicare or Medicaid eligible patients to influence their decision to seek specific items and services reimbursed by the government or to choose a particular provider. The potential sanctions for violations of these laws include significant fines, exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid and criminal sanctions. Although some “safe harbor” regulations attempt to clarify when an arrangement may not violate the anti-kickback law, our business arrangements and the services we provide may not fit within these safe harbors. Failure to satisfy a safe harbor requires further analysis of whether the parties violated the anti-kickback law. In addition to the anti-kickback law, many states have adopted similar kickback and/or fee-splitting laws, which can affect the financial relationships we may have with our customers, physicians, vendors, other retail pharmacies and patients. The finding of a violation of the federal laws or one of these state laws could harm our business. • HHS issued final regulations implementing the Administrative Simplification Provisions of HIPAA concerning the maintenance, transmission, and security of individually identifiable health information. The privacy regulations, with which compliance was required as of April 2003, impose on covered entities (including hospitals, pharmacies and other health care providers) significant new restrictions on the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. The security regulations, with which compliance was required as of April 2005, impose on covered entities certain administrative, technical, and physical safeguard requirements with respect to individually identifiable health information maintained or transmitted electronically. The regulations establishing electronic transaction standards that all health care providers must use when electronically submitting or receiving individually identifiable health information in connection with certain health care transactions became effective October 2002, but Congress extended the compliance deadline until October 2003 for organizations, such as ours, that submitted a request for an extension. As a result of these HIPAA regulations, we have taken the appropriate actions to ensure that patient data kept on our computer networks are in compliance with these regulations. We believe that we are substantially in compliance with the HIPAA electronic standards and are capable of delivering HIPAA standard transactions electronically. In addition, if we choose to distribute drugs through new distribution channels, such as the Internet, we will have to comply with government regulations that apply to those distribution channels, which could harm our business. In addition to HIPAA, a number of states have adopted laws and/or regulations applicable to the use and disclosure of patient health information that are more stringent than comparable provisions under HIPAA. The finding of a violation of HIPAA or one of these state laws could harm our business. • The Ethics in Patient Referrals Act of 1989, as amended, commonly referred to as the “Stark Law,” prohibits physician referrals to entities with which the physician or his or her immediate family members have a “financial relationship” and prohibits the entity receiving the referral from presenting a claim to Medicare or Medicaid programs for services furnished under the referral. On March 26, 2004, CMS issued the second phase of its final regulations, addressing physician self-referrals, which became effective July 24, 2004. A violation of the Stark Law is punishable by civil sanctions, including significant fines, a denial of payment or a requirement to refund certain amounts collected, and exclusion from participation in 34 Medicare and Medicaid. A number of states have adopted laws and/or regulations that contain provisions that track, or are otherwise similar to, the Stark Law. The finding of a violation of the Stark Law or one or more of these state laws could harm our business. • State laws prohibit the practice of medicine, pharmacy and nursing without a license. To the extent that we assist patients and providers with prescribed treatment programs, a state could consider our activities to constitute the practice of medicine. Our nurses must obtain state licenses to provide nursing services to some of our patients. In addition, in some states, coordination of nursing services for patients could necessitate licensure as a home health agency and/or could necessitate the need to use licensed nurses to provide certain patient-directed services. If we are found to have violated those laws, we could face civil and criminal penalties and be required to reduce, restructure or even cease our business in that state. • Pharmacies (retail, mail-order and wholesale) as well as pharmacists often must obtain state licenses to operate and dispense drugs. Pharmacies must also obtain licenses in some states in order to operate and provide goods and services to residents of those states. In addition, our pharmacies may be required by the federal Drug Enforcement Agency, as well as by similar state agencies, to obtain registration to handle controlled substances, including certain prescription drugs, and to follow specified labeling and recordkeeping requirements for such substances. If we are unable to maintain our pharmacy licenses, or if states place burdensome restrictions or limitations on non-resident pharmacies, this could limit or otherwise affect our ability to operate in some states, which could harm our business. • Federal and state investigations and enforcement actions continue to focus on the health care industry, scrutinizing a wide range of items such as joint venture arrangements, referral and billing practices, product discount arrangements, home health care services, dissemination of confidential patient information, promotion of off-label drug indications use, clinical drug research trials and gifts for patients or referral sources. From time to time, and like others in the health care industry, we receive requests for information from government agencies in connection with their regulatory or investigative authority. • We are subject to federal and state laws prohibiting entities and individuals from knowingly and willfully making claims to Medicare and Medicaid and other governmental programs and third-party payors that contain false or fraudulent information. The federal False Claims Act encourages private individuals to file suits on behalf of the government against health care providers such as us. As such suits are generally filed under seal with a court to allow the government adequate time to investigate and determine whether it will intervene in the action, the implicated health care providers are often unaware of the suit until the government has made its determination and the seal is lifted. Violations or alleged violations of such laws, and any related lawsuits, could result in significant financial or criminal sanctions (including treble damages) or exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some states also have enacted statutes similar to the False Claims Act which may provide for large penalties, substantial fines and treble damages if violated. There is a delay between our performance of services and our reimbursement. Billing and collection for our services is a complex process requiring constant attention and involvement by senior management and ongoing enhancements to information systems and billing center operating procedures. The health care industry is characterized by delays that typically range from three to nine months from the time services are provided to the time when the reimbursement or payment for these services is received, which makes working capital management, including prompt billing and collection, an important factor in our operating results and liquidity. Trends in the industry may further extend the collection period and impact our working capital. We recognize revenues when we provide services to patients. However, our ability to collect these receivables depends, in part, on our submissions to payors of accurate and complete documentation. In order for us to bill and receive payment for our services, the physician and the patient must provide appropriate billing information. Failure to meet the billing requirements of the different payors could have a significant impact on our revenues, profitability and cash flow. If we are unable to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, our revenues, profitability and cash flow could be adversely affected. 35 We rely heavily on a limited number of shipping providers, and our business could be harmed if their rates are increased or our providers are unavailable. A significant portion of our revenues result from the sale of drugs we deliver to our patients, and a significant amount of our products are delivered by overnight mail or courier or through retail pharmacies. The costs incurred in shipping are not passed on to our customers and, therefore, changes in these costs directly impact our margins. We depend heavily on these outsourced shipping services for efficient, cost-effective delivery of our products. The risks associated with this dependence include: any significant increase in shipping rates; strikes or other service interruptions by these carriers; and spoilage of high-cost drugs during shipment since our drugs often require special handling, such as refrigeration. If we do not maintain effective and efficient information systems, our operations may be adversely affected. Our operations depend, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information systems. Failure to maintain reliable information systems or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions in our business operations, including billing and collections, loss of existing patients and difficulty in attracting new patients, patient and payor disputes, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses or other adverse consequences, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and Minnesota law may make it more difficult for a person to receive a change-in-control premium. Our Board’s ability to designate and issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock and issue up to 50 million shares of common stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, and could have the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire, or could discourage a person from seeking to acquire, control of the Company. If this occurred, a person could lose the opportunity to receive a premium on the sale of his or her shares in a change of control transaction. In addition, the Minnesota Business Corporation Act contains provisions that would have the effect of restricting, delaying or preventing altogether certain business combinations with any person who becomes an interested stockholder. Interested stockholders include, among others, any person who, together with affiliates and associates, acquires 10% or more of a corporation’s voting stock in a transaction which is not approved by a duly constituted committee of the Board of the corporation. These provisions could also limit a person’s ability to receive a premium in a change of control transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 