ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. 13 Risks Related to Our Business We face substantial competition which, among other things, may lead to price pressure and adversely affect our sales. We compete with other market players on the basis of product quality, responsiveness to customer needs and price. There are two types of steel and iron companies in China: state-owned enterprises (“SOEs”) and privately owned companies. Criteria important to our customers when selecting a steel supplier include: •Quality; •Price/cost competitiveness; •System and product performance; •Reliability and timeliness of delivery; •New product and technology development capability; •Excellence and flexibility in operations; •Degree of global and local presence; •Effectiveness of customer service; and •Overall management capability. We compete with both SOEs and privately owned steel manufacturers. While we believe that our price and quality are superior to other manufacturers, many of our competitors are better capitalized, more experienced, and have deeper ties in the Chinese marketplace. We consider there to be the following ten major competitors of similar size, production capability and product line in the marketplace competing against our four operating subsidiaries as indicated: • Competitors of General Steel (China) include: Tianjin No. 1 Rolling Steel Plant, Tianjin Yinze Metal Sheet Plant and Tangshan Fengrun Metal Sheet Plant; • Competitors of Longmen Joint Venture include: Shanxi Haixin Iron and Steel Co., Ltd. and Gansu Jiuquan Iron and Steel Co., Ltd.; • Competitors of Baotou Steel Pipe Joint Venture include: Tianjin Bo Ai Steel Pipe Co., Hebei Cangzhou Zhong Yuan Steel Pipe Co., and Shanxi Taiyuan Guo Lian Steel Pipe Co.; and • Competitors of Maoming Hengda include: Guangdong Shao Guan Iron and Steel Group and Zhuhai Yue Yu Feng Iron and Steel Co., Ltd. In addition, with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization and China’s agreements to lift many of the barriers to foreign competition, we believe that competition will increase as a whole with the entry of foreign companies into this market. This may limit our opportunities for growth, lead to price pressure and reduce our profitability. We may not be able to compete favorably and this increased competition may harm our business, our business prospects and results of operations. Our inability to fund our capital expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to raise additional capital from outside sources. Our strategy is to grow through mergers, joint ventures and acquisitions targeting SOE steel companies and selected entities we believe have outstanding potential. Our growth strategy will require us to obtain additional financing through capital markets. In the future, we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on favorable terms, if at all, and our failure to do so may weaken our financial position, reduce our competitiveness, limit our growth and reduce our profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any given time may depend on a number of factors, including: • Our financial condition and results of operations; • The condition of the PRC economy and the industry sectors in which we operate; and • Conditions in relevant financial markets in the United States, the PRC and elsewhere in the world. 14 Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action of the United States and other countries could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The credit markets worldwide and in the United States have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States government and foreign governments have either implemented or are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the global credit markets has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. Major market disruptions, the current adverse changes in global market conditions, and the regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow funds as needed. The current market conditions may last longer than we anticipate. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions which could divert management's attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, or be difficult to integrate, which may adversely affect our financial results. We have made a number of acquisitions, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire companies and technologies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such acquisitions could divert our management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. We might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage such an expansion in an orderly fashion. This growth will lead to an increase in the responsibilities of existing personnel, the hiring of additional personnel and expansion of our scope of operations. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain the required financing under terms that are acceptable to us or hire additional personnel to meet the needs of our expansion. Our business, revenues and profitability are dependent on a limited number of large customers. Our revenue is dependent, in large part, on significant contracts with a limited number of large customers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 27% of our sales were to five customers. We believe that revenue derived from our current and future large customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. Our inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of large contracts or the loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of our major customers would have the effect of reducing our revenues and profitability. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions in China. Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. 15 Steel consumption is highly cyclical and follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by an excess in the world supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. We currently have an annual steel production capacity of 7 million metric tons of crude steel and if the market for steel cannot support such production levels, the price for our products may go down. In addition, future economic downturns could decrease the demand for our products. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. We may not be able to pass on to customers the increases in the costs of our raw materials, particularly iron-ore, coke, steel billets and steel coil. The major raw materials that we purchase for production are iron-ore, coke, steel billets and steel coil. The price and availability of these raw materials are subject to market conditions affecting supply and demand. Our financial condition or results of operations may be impaired by further increases in raw material costs to the extent we are unable to pass those increases to our customers. In addition, if these materials are not available on a timely basis or at all, we may not be able to produce our products and our sales may decline. The price of steel may continue declining due to overproduction by the Chinese steel companies. According to the China Iron and Steel Association, there are approximately 800 to 1,000 steel companies in China. Each steel company has its own production plan. The Chinese government released new guidance on the steel industry to encourage consolidation within the fragmented steel sector to mitigate problems of low-end repetitive production and inefficient use of resources. The current overproduction may not be solved by these measures enacted by the Chinese government. If the current overproduction continues, our product shipments could decline, our inventory could build up and eventually we may be required to decrease our sales price, which may decrease our profitability. Disruptions to our manufacturing processes could adversely affect our operations, customer service and financial results. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steel-making equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and such equipment may become temporarily inoperable as a result of unanticipated malfunctions or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns. Although our manufacturing plants have not experienced plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events, we may experience such problems in the future. To the extent that lost production as a result of such a disruption could not be recovered by unaffected facilities, such disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, customer service and financial results. Because we are a holding company with substantially all of our operations conducted through our subsidiaries, our performance will be affected by the performance of such subsidiaries. We have no operations other than General Steel (China), Baotou Steel Pipe Joint Venture, Longmen Joint Venture, Maoming Hengda, and Tianwu Joint Venture, and our principal assets are our investments in these subsidiaries and VIE. As a result, we are dependent upon the performance of our subsidiaries and VIE and we will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting them as well as general economic and financial conditions. As substantially all of our operations are and will be conducted through our subsidiaries and VIE, we will be dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Because virtually all of our assets are and will be held by operating subsidiaries and VIE, the claims of our stockholders will be structurally subordinate to all existing and future liabilities and obligations, and trade payables of such subsidiaries and VIE. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our subsidiaries’ and VIE’s liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. 16 Because we have entered into a significant number of related party transactions through the course of our routine business operations, there is a risk that we may not be able to control the valuation of such transactions, which could then adversely impact our profitability. In the course of our normal business, we have purchased raw materials and supplies from our related parties and also engaged in sales of our products to our related parties. Because such related party transactions may not always be completed at arm’s length due to their nature, we may not be able to control the valuation of such transactions and as a result, there is a risk that the value of such related party transactions exceeds market value, which could ultimately impact our profitability. We depend on bank financing for our working capital needs. We have various financing facilities which are due on demand or within one year. So far, we have not experienced any difficulties in repaying such financing facilities. However, we may in the future encounter difficulties in repaying or refinancing such financings on time and may face severe difficulties in our operations and financial position. Our bank loans may not be renewed if certain covenants of the loan agreements are not met. We have various financing facilities with banks which are due on demand or within one year. So far, we have not experienced any difficulties in repaying such financing facilities. As of December 31, 2011, we have not satisfied our financial covenants stipulated by certain loan agreements because of debt to asset ratio. Furthermore, we are party to loan agreements with cross default clause where any breach of other loan covenants will automatically result in default of such loans. According to the loan agreements, the bank could request more collateral or guarantees if the covenant is not satisfied or request early repayment of the loan if we cannot remedy the default within a period of time. As of today, we have not received any notice from the banks to requesting for more collateral, guarantees or early repayment of the short loans due to the breach. However, we may in the future encounter difficulties in repaying or refinancing such loans on time, or providing more collateral or guarantees to the banks or making early repayment of our loans. We depend on our affiliates financing for our working capital needs. We have various types of financing with our affiliates. We rely on Mr. Zuosheng Yu for important business leadership. We depend, to a large extent, on the abilities and operations of our current management team. However, we have a particular reliance upon Mr. Zuosheng Yu, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and significant shareholder, for the direction of our business and leadership in our growth efforts. The loss of the services of Mr. Yu, for any reason, may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We cannot guarantee that Mr. Yu will continue to be available to us, or that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Yu on a timely basis. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading rice of our common stock. Also, we are exposed to potential risks from regulations requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are exposed to potential risks from regulations requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Failure on our part to have effective internal financial and accounting controls, including the material weakness described below, has and could in the future cause our financial reporting to be unreliable, has and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, and has and could in the future cause the trading price of our common stock to fall dramatically. 17 We and our independent registered public accounting firm have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that is described in greater detail in “Item 9A—Controls and Procedures.” Remedying these material weaknesses and maintaining proper and effective internal controls have and will require substantial management time and attention and have resulted in our incurring substantial incremental expenses. Our outside consultants are assisting us with designing and implementing an adequate risk assessment process to identify complex transactions requiring specialized knowledge to ensure the appropriate accounting for and disclosure of such transactions. We cannot be certain that further remedies including accounting restatements will not occur in the future. Such remedies, including accounting restatements, could create a significant strain on our internal resources and cause delays in our release of quarterly or annual financial results and the filing of related reports, increase our costs and cause management distraction. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have and will continue to evaluate our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have and will continue to perform the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have and will continue to incur additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our stock. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance in China, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance in China. We cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. We have purchased automobile insurance with third party liability coverage for our vehicles. In addition, we have purchased property insurance to cover production equipment. Except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. In the event of a significant product liability claim or other uninsured event, our financial results and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Operating Our Business in China We face the risk that changes in the policies of the Chinese government could have significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in China and the profitability of such business. The economy of China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market oriented economy, subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Policies of the Chinese government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of China. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of a market economy under socialism. Under this direction, we believe that China will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in China will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, there can be no assurance that such will be the case. A change in policies by the Chinese government could adversely affect our interests through, among other factors: changes in laws; regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion; imports or sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades, the Chinese government may significantly alter such policies, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China’s political, economic and social climate. 18 The Chinese laws and regulations governing our current business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, any changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. Along with our subsidiaries, we are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under Chinese law, and, as a result, we are required to comply with certain Chinese laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, the Chinese authorities retain broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses, permits and beneficial treatment issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time under contrary findings of higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations may have on our businesses. We may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations. Such restructuring may not be deemed effective or may encounter similar or other difficulties. As a result of these substantial uncertainties, there is a risk that we may be found in violation of current or future Chinese laws or regulations. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the Chinese economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. Substantially all of our assets, and the assets of our operating subsidiary, are located in China and our revenue is derived from our operations in China. We anticipate that our revenues generated in China will continue to represent all of our revenues in the near future. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. In addition, the Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in reduced demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government’s recent measures to curb inflation rates could adversely affect future results of operations. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. China’s Consumer Price Index increased by 3.3% for full year of 2010 according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, or the NBS. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. In recent years, the government of China has undertaken various measures to alleviate the effects of inflation, especially with respect to key commodities. From time to time, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission announces national price controls on various products. The government of China has also encouraged local governments to institute price controls products. Such price controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and, accordingly, the price of our common stock. 19 If relations between the United States and China deteriorate, our stock price may decrease and we may experience difficulties accessing the United States capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to access United States capital markets. The Chinese Government could change its policies toward private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of our investments in China. Our business is subject to political and economic uncertainties in China and may be adversely affected by its political, economic and social developments. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may alter them to our detriment. Conducting our business might become more difficult or costly due to changes in policies, laws and regulations, or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises. In addition, nationalization or expropriation could result in the total loss of our investments in China. The Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, requires Chinese residents to register with, or obtain approval from SAFE regarding their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by Chinese residents has undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. A failure by our shareholders who are Chinese residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our Chinese resident shareholders to liability under Chinese law. Our business, results of operations and overall profitability are linked to the economic, political and social conditions in China. All of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Therefore, the Chinese government’s involvement in the economy may negatively affect our business operations, results of operations and our financial condition. If there will be any changes in PRC Law, the PRC legal system could limit our Company’s ability to enforce the Unified Management Agreement, which in turn may lead to reconsideration of the VIE assessment with respect to Longmen Joint Venture. Prior to entering into the Unified Management Agreement, Longmen Joint Venture had been consolidated as our 60% directly owned subsidiary. Upon entering into the Unified Management Agreement on April 29, 2011, Longmen Joint Venture was considered to be a variable interest entity (“VIE”) of which we are the primary beneficiary and therefore we continue to consolidate Longmen Joint Venture. 20 We believe that the Unified Management Agreement between Longmen Joint Venture and Shaanxi Coal is in compliance with PRC law and is legally enforceable. The Board of Directors of Longmen Joint Venture continues to be the controlling decision-making body with respect to Longmen Joint Venture. We control 60% of the voting rights of the Board of Directors, and have control over the operations of Longmen Joint Venture. As such, we believe we have the power to control the activities of the VIE. However, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce the Unified Management Agreement, which in turn, may lead to reconsideration of, and a different conclusion under the VIE assessment. Governmental control of currency conversion may cause the value of your investment in our common stock to decrease. The Chinese government imposes controls on the conversion of Renminbi or RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from a transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. Currency fluctuations and restrictions on currency exchanges may adversely affect our business, including limiting our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies and, if RMB were to decline in value, reducing our revenue in U.S. dollar terms. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China use their local currency as their functional currencies. Substantially all of our revenue and expenses are in Renminbi, or RMB. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to local currencies. For example, the value of the RMB depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Prior to July 21, 2005, the official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB to the U.S. dollar had generally been stable and the RMB had appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, RMB may fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. The four main currencies in the basket are the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Korean won. In the three years that followed, a slight appreciation against the U.S. currency occurred and by the end of October 2008, the RMB exchange rate with the U.S. dollar had risen to nearly 6.8 to the U.S. dollar. Since mid-2008, the RMB has been held stable as the Chinese government considers how best to respond to the global economic crisis. In June 2010, the temporary dollar peg was again abandoned, after the Chinese RMB rose approximately 16% against the Euro as a result of the Greek fiscal crisis. However, the Chinese government has signaled that going forward its currency will only be allowed to appreciate gradually against the dollar. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of RMB against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that RMB will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. Our financial statements are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign consolidated subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the foreign consolidated subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. In addition, we have certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the relevant entity’s functional currency. Changes in the functional currency value of these assets and liabilities create fluctuations that will lead to a transaction gain or loss. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to hedge our exchange rate risks. 21 We are subject to environmental and safety regulations, which may increase our compliance costs and reduce our overall profitability. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in China. We may incur substantial costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Additionally, these regulations may become stricter, which will increase our costs of compliance in a manner that could reduce our overall profitability. The capital requirements and other expenditures that may be necessary to comply with environmental requirements could increase and become a significant expense linked to the conduct of our business. Our operating subsidiaries must comply with environmental protection laws that could adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with the environmental protection laws and regulations promulgated by the national and local governments of China. Yearly inspections of waste treatment systems require the payment of a license fee which could become a penalty fee if standards are not maintained. If we fail to comply with any of these environmental laws and regulations in China, depending on the types and seriousness of the violation, we may be subject to, among other things, warning from relevant authorities, imposition of fines, specific performance and/or criminal liability, forfeiture of profits made, being ordered to close down our business operations and suspension of relevant permits. Because the Chinese legal system is not fully developed, our legal protections may be limited. The Chinese legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedent. Since 1979, China’s legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and the array of new laws and regulations may not be sufficient to cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involves uncertainties. In addition, published government policies and internal rules may have retroactive effects and, in some cases, the policies and rules are not published at all. As a result, we may be unaware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime later. The laws of China govern our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities and the enforcement of these contracts and the interpretation of the laws governing these relationships are subject to uncertainty. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively and to pay dividends. All of our sales revenues and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since substantially all of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. 22 Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance our PRC operating subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce People’s Republic of China, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect our PRC operating subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining foreign currency, we may be unable to meet obligations that may be incurred in the future that require payment in foreign currency. Under the New EIT Law, as defined below, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China, which would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. Under China’s Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the “EIT Law”, and its implementing rules, which became effective in 2008, an enterprise established with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. Under the implementing rules of the New EIT Law, de facto management means substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. Because the New EIT Law and its implementing rules are new, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. In April 2009, the State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”) issued a new circular to clarify the criteria for recognizing the resident enterprise status for Chinese controlled foreign companies. According to the Circular Regarding the Determination Criteria on Chinese Controlled Offshore Companies as Resident Enterprises (Circular Guoshuifa 2009 No. 82), if a foreign company simultaneously satisfies the following four criteria: ·It constitutes a Chinese controlled foreign company and shall be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise. ·The premises where the senior management and the senior management bodies responsible for the routine production and business management of the enterprise perform their functions are mainly located within China. ·The financial decisions (including, borrowing, lending, financing, financial risk management, etc.) and the personnel decisions (for example, appointment, dismissal, remuneration, etc.) of the enterprise are made by the bodies or persons within China or are subject to the approval of the bodies or persons within China. ·The enterprise’s primary properties, accounting books, company seals, minutes and archives of the meetings of the board of directors and shareholders are located or preserved within China. The enterprise’s directors or senior management with fifty percent or more of the voting rights usually live in China. Despite the issuance of the new clarifying circular referenced above, the application of these standards remains uncertain. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we will be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” such dividends may be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification would result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC shareholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2008 and 2009 tax years and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. 23 If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to tax in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. In addition, we have not accrued any tax liability associated with the possible payment of dividends to our U.S. parent company. Such a tax would be an added expense appearing on our income statement, which would reduce our net income. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us and you, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our PRC operating subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. In addition, our VIE and all of our subsidiaries that are incorporated in China are subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you, and may lead to penalties imposed on us because of the different understanding between the relevant authority and us. For example, according to current tax laws and regulations, we are responsible to pay business tax on a “Self-examination and Self-application” basis. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of certain preferential tax treatments, we may be found in violation of the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to the scope of taxable services and the percentage of tax rate and therefore might be subject to penalties, including but not limited to, monetary penalties. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws We may have limited legal recourse under PRC law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. The Chinese government has enacted significant laws and regulations dealing with matters, such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the PRC’s experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. If our new business ventures are unsuccessful, or other adverse circumstances arise from these transactions, we face the risk that the parties to these ventures may seek ways to terminate the transactions, or may hinder or prevent us from accessing important information regarding the financial and business operations of these acquired companies. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance or to seek an injunction under PRC law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although legislation in China over the past 30 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us and foreign investors, including you. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 24 Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve such allegations, which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed so-called reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our Company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our Company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our Company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our Company and business operations will be severely impacted and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in the PRC. Accordingly, our public disclosure should be reviewed in light of the fact that no governmental agency that is located in China where substantially all of our operations and business are located had conducted any due diligence on our operations or reviewed or cleared any of our disclosure. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Unlike public reporting companies whose operations are located primarily in the United States, substantially all of our operations are located in China. Since substantially all of our operations and business takes place in China, it may be more difficult for the SEC to overcome the geographic and cultural obstacles that are present when reviewing our disclosure. These same obstacles are not present for similar companies whose operations or business take place entirely or primarily in the United States. Furthermore, our SEC reports and other disclosure and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review of the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any due diligence on our Company and with the understanding that none of our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements has been reviewed or otherwise been scrutinized by any local regulator. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are PRC citizens, they may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC laws. 25 On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company,” also known as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company, such as our Company, after March 28, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to March 28, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 are burdensome and time consuming. In the future, we may adopt an equity incentive plan and make numerous stock option grants under the plan to our officers, directors and employees, some of whom are PRC citizens and may be required to register with SAFE. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with relevant provisions may subject us and participants of any such equity incentive plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our PRC employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation and to attract and retain employees and directors may be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. Due to various restrictions under PRC law on the distribution of dividends by our PRC operating companies, we may not be able to pay dividends to our shareholders. The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986)(“WFOE”), as amended and the Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended and the Company Law of the PRC (2006) contain the principal regulations governing dividend distributions by wholly foreign owned enterprises. Under these regulations WFOE’s may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Additionally, a WFOE is required to set aside a certain amount of its accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends, except in the event of liquidation, and cannot be used for working capital purposes. Furthermore, if any of our consolidated subsidiaries in China incurs debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict our ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our consolidated subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations due to these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, under WFOE regulations mentioned above, we must retain a reserve equal to 10 percent of net income after taxes, not to exceed 50 percent of registered capital. Accordingly, this reserve will not be available to be distributed as dividends to our shareholders. We presently do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our management intends to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings to finance the development and execution of our strategy and the expansion of our business. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has been deficient in western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, and especially given that we are an exchange listed company in the U.S. and subject to regulation as such, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet western standards. As there is a shortage of well-educated and experienced professionals who have bilingual and bicultural backgrounds in China, especially in remote areas where our factories are located, we may experience high turnover in our staff. Therefore, we may, in turn, experience difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other applicable laws, rules and regulations. This may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls which could impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Any such deficiencies, weaknesses or lack of compliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the public announcement of such deficiencies could adversely impact our stock price. 26 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our officers, directors and affiliates control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our officers, directors and affiliates beneficially own approximately 40.3% of our common stock. Mr. Zuosheng Yu, our major stockholder, beneficially owns approximately 39.8% of our common stock. Mr. Yu can effectively control us and his interests may differ from other stockholders. All of our subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. All our subsidiaries are located in China and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States or China and, even if civil judgments are obtained in United States courts, such judgments may not be enforceable in Chinese courts. Most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. It is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and China would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Our common stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other steel makers, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. Investors may experience dilution from exercise of warrants we issued in December 2007 and December 2009. Shares of our common stock are issuable upon conversion of senior convertible notes and warrants to purchase common stock issued in a private placement that closed on December 13, 2007. The senior convertible notes were initially convertible into 4,170,009 shares of our common stock based on a conversion price of $12.47 per share and applicable interest rates. As of the date of this report, all of the convertible notes had been converted. Prior to the adjustments described below, upon the exercise of the warrants, an additional aggregate amount of 1,154,958 shares of our common stock were issuable based upon the then exercise price of $13.51 per share. The warrants are exercisable from May 13, 2008, to May 13, 2013. The exercise price of the warrants (and the number of shares issuable under the warrants) are each subject to adjustment under certain customary circumstances, including, among others, if the sale price of securities issued by us in subsequent offerings is less than the exercise price then in effect. As discussed below, the warrants have been adjusted such that upon their exercise, an aggregate of 3,900,871 shares of our common stock are now issuable based upon the current adjusted exercise price of $5.00 per share. 27 In addition to the notes and warrants issued in December 2007, we issued 5,555,556 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 2,777,778 shares of our common stock in a registered direct offering that closed on December 30, 2009. The warrants issued as part of the December 2009 transaction are exercisable beginning six months from the date of issuance for a period of two years from the initial exercise date, and carry an initial exercise price per share equal to $5.00. Certain anti-dilution adjustment provisions contained in the warrants issued in 2007 may have been triggered by the December 2009 transaction. Rather than giving full effect to the anti-dilution provisions, we entered into warrant reset agreements with investors from our December 2007 financing whereby the aggregate number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued in the December 2007 transaction is increased from 1,154,958 shares to 3,900,871 shares, and the exercise price of the December 2007 Warrants was reduced from $13.51 per share to $5.00 per share. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon exercise of any of our outstanding warrants (including any increased amount of shares that may be issued in the future because of reductions in exercise price thereof) will dilute our current shareholders. Our failure to comply with conditions required for our common stock to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) could result in delisting of our common stock from the NYSE and have a significant negative effect on the value and liquidity of our securities as well as other matters. As a result of our failure to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (“Annual Report”), we were not in full compliance with NYSE Listed Company Manual, Section 802.01E, which requires us to file our Annual Report on or before April 16, 2012 (the “Filing Due Date”). We initially had six months from the Filing Due Date to cure this deficiency. On October 12, 2012, we received a notification from the NYSE granting us an extension until February 15, 2013 to file our Annual Report. We are required to comply with NYSE Listed Company Manual to file this Annual Report as a condition for our common stock to continue to be listed on the NYSE. If we are unable to comply with such conditions, then our shares of common stock are subject to immediate delisting from the NYSE. We intend to appeal any decision to delist our shares from the NYSE, but cannot provide any assurance that our appeal will be successful. Any such appeal will not stay the decision to delist our shares. If our common stock is delisted from the NYSE, such securities may be traded over-the-counter on the “pink sheets.” The alternative market, however, is generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, the NYSE. Accordingly, delisting of our common stock from the NYSE could have a significant negative effect on the value and liquidity of our securities. In addition, the delisting of such stock could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, delisting of our common stock may preclude us from using exemptions from certain state and federal securities regulations, including the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 