D. Risk Factors The following risks relate specifically to the Company's business and should be considered carefully. The Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of the following risks. (1) The Company's limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate the Company’s current business and forecast future results. The Company has only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of the Company’s current business and prospects, each of which should be considered in light of the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered in the early stages of development of all companies. This limited operating history leads the Company to believe that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results may not be meaningful and that the results for any particular period should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. (2) The sole mineral property of the Company is in the exploration and development stage only and consequently continued exploration of the Company’s mineral property may not result in any discoveries of commercial bodies of mineralization. The Company’s Regalito property in which the Company has an option to earn an interest is in the exploration and development stage only, is without a known body of commercial mineralization and has no ongoing mining operations. Mineral exploration involves a high degree of risk and few properties which are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. Continued exploration of the Company’s mineral property may not result in a discovery of a commercial body of mineralization. If the Company’s efforts do not result in any discovery of commercial mineralization, the Company will be forced to look for other exploration projects or cease operations. (3) The current prices of copper must be maintained for a sustained period of time in order to render the Company’s current mineral property economically viable. The cornerstone of the Company’s original strategy was to acquire and hold non-economic properties containing ore and await higher metal prices to render those properties of higher value. The recent rise in the price of copper has potentially made the Company’s Regalito property economically viable. However, the current price of copper must be maintained for a sustained period of time in order to render the Company’s Regalito property economically viable. In the event lower mineral prices occur or the current copper prices do not occur for a sustained period of time the Company’s economic prospects will significantly suffer and the Company will be forced to look for other exploration projects or cease operations. (4) The Company has no significant source of operating cash flow and failure to generate revenues in the future could cause the Company to go out of business. - 6 - As the Company’s Regalito property currently does not have mineralization reserves the Company has no revenues from operations. The Company has limited financial resources. The Company’s ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent upon the Company’s: ability to locate a profitable mineral property; ability to generate revenues; and ability to reduce exploration costs. Based upon current plans, the Company expects to incur operating losses in future periods. This will happen because there are continuing expenses associated with the holding and exploration of the Company’s Regalito property. The Company may not be successful in generating revenues in the future. Failure to generate revenues could cause the Company to go out of business. Additional funds raised by the Company through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities will cause the Company’s current stockholders to experience dilution. Such securities may grant rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the Company’s common stockholders. The Company does not have any contractual restrictions on its ability to incur debt and, accordingly, the Company could incur significant amounts of indebtedness to finance its operations. Any such indebtedness could contain covenants, which would restrict the Company’s operations. The Company does not plan on entering into any debt obligations in the next twelve months. (5) The possibility of the Company’s Regalito property ever having ore reserves is extremely remote. The Company has no known ore reserves. The possibility of the Company’s Regalito property ever having ore reserves is extremely remote and any funds spent on exploration and development will probably be lost. The Company’s success depends upon finding and developing an ore reserve. If the Company does not find an ore reserve containing copper, precious or non-precious metals, either because it does not have the money to do so or because it is not economically feasible to do it, the Company will cease operations. (6) Government expropriation or regulation may prevent or restrict mining of the Company’s mineral deposit. Even if the Company’s Regalito property is proven to host economic reserves of copper or other precious or non-precious metals, factors such as governmental expropriation or regulation may prevent or restrict mining of any such deposits. Exploration and mining activities may be affected in varying degrees by government policies and regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect its business. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. (7) The Company has no history of generating revenues and the continuing failure to generate revenues could cause the Company to cease operations. The Company has no history of pre-tax profit. The Company’s Regalito property does not have ore reserves. The Company sustained operating losses for each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 of $1,546,448, $1,975,903, $1,256,574, $3,356,101 and $734 respectively. The continued operation of the Company will be dependent upon its ability to generate operating revenues and to procure additional financing. The Company may not be successful in generating revenues or raising capital in the future. Failure to generate revenues or raise capital could cause the Company to cease operations. (8) The Company’s Regalito property is located in a foreign country and as such the Company’s business may be exposed to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties. The Company’s Regalito property is located in Chile. As the Company’s business is carried on in a foreign country it is exposed to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, but not limited to, terrorism, hostage taking, military repression, expropriation, changing tax laws, extreme - 7 - fluctuations in currency exchange rates, high rates of inflation and labour unrest. Chile’s status as developing country may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain any required exploration financing for its Chilean projects. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Chile may adversely affect the Company’s operations in that country. Operations may be effected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to restrictions on expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legalisation, land use and land claims of local people. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral right applications and tenure could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. The occurrence of these various factors and uncertainties cannot be accurately predicted and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations. (9) As the Company is a Canadian company it may be difficult for U.S. shareholders of the Company to effect service on the Company or to realize on judgements obtained against the Company in the United States. The Company is a Canadian corporation. All of its directors and officers are residents of Canada and a significant part of its assets are, or will be, located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders resident in the United States to effect service within the United States upon the Company, directors, officers or experts who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liability of any of the Company, directors or officers under the United States federal securities laws. If a judgment is obtained in the U.S. courts based on civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company or its directors or officers, it will be difficult to enforce the judgment in the Canadian courts against the Company and any of the Company’s non-U.S. resident executive officers or directors. Accordingly, United States shareholders may be forced to bring actions against the Company and its respective directors and officers under Canadian law and in Canadian courts in order to enforce any claims that they may have against the Company or its directors and officers. Nevertheless, it may be difficult for United States shareholders to bring an original action in the Canadian courts to enforce liabilities based on the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company and any of the Company’s non-U.S. resident executive officers or directors. (10) The mineral exploitation industry is intensely competitive in all its phases and the Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself. The mineral exploitation industry is intensely competitive in all its phases. The Company competes with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself for the acquisition of mineral concessions, claims, leases and other mineral interests as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. In addition, there is no assurance that even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, a ready market will exist for their sale. Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of any minerals discovered. These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets and processing equipment, international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies), interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities, government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on invested capital or losing its invested capital. As the Company is in the exploration and development stage, the above factors have had no material impact on operations or income. (11) Substantial expenditures are required to be made by the Company to establish ore reserves. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves. These expenditures include the costs of drilling, sampling, bulk sampling, metallurgical testing, cost estimating, economic evaluations, market and environmental studies, cost estimating, economic evaluation, and market and environmental studies which have to be completed before an ore reserve can be designated. - 8 - (12) The Company does not presently have insurance covering its Regalito property and as a consequence could incur considerable costs. Mineral exploration involves risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which the Company has a direct or indirect interest may be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration of precious and non-precious metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, damage to property, and possible environmental damage. The Company does not presently have insurance covering its Regalito property and does not presently intend to obtain liability insurance. As a result of not having insurance, the Company could incur significant costs that could have a materially adverse effect upon its financial condition and even cause the Company to cease operations. To date, the Company has not experienced any material losses due to hazards arising from its operations. (13) The Company’s Regalito property may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims and as such title to the Regalito property may be affected. Although the Company has sought and received such representations as it has been able to achieve from the vendor in connection with the acquisition of or option to acquire the Regalito property and has conducted its own investigation of legal title to such property, the Regalito property may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. (14) All phases of the Company’s operations in Chile are subject to environmental regulations which may cause the Company to invoke stricter standards. All phases of the Company’s operations in Chile are subject to environmental regulations. The Degree Law Number 1,349 of Chile is the primary body of law with regard to environmental regulation, where the Company’s Regalito property is located. Although compliance with such law is not presently a significant factor in the Company’s operations, compliance with future changes in environmental regulation, if any, may adversely affect the Company’s operations. (15) The price of copper, base and precious metals has fluctuated widely in recent years and may adversely affect the economic viability of the Company’s Regalito property. The Company’s revenues, if any, are expected to be in large part derived from the mining and sale of copper and other precious and non-precious metals. The price of those commodities has fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years, and is affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates, consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to new mine developments and improved mining and production methods. The effect of these factors on the price of copper, base and precious metals and therefore the economic viability of the Company’s Regalito property, cannot be accurately predicted but may adversely affect the Company’s operation and its ability to raise capital (16) The Company’s future performance is dependent on key personnel. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s executives or Board of Directors could have a material adverse effect on the Company business. The Company’s performance is substantially dependent on the performance and continued efforts of the Company’s executives and its Board of Directors. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s executives or Board of Directors could have a material adverse effect on the Company business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company currently does not carry any key person insurance on any of the board of directors. (17) The Company has not declared any dividends since its inception in 2001, and has no present intention of paying any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. - 9 - The Company has not declared any dividends since its inception in 2001, and has no present intention of paying any cash dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment by the Company of dividends, if any, in the future, rests in the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will depend, among other things, upon the Company's earnings, its capital requirements and financial condition, as well as other relevant factors. (18) The possible issuance of additional shares may impact the value of the Company stock. The Company is authorized to issue an unlimited number of common shares without par value. It is the Company's intention to issue more shares. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, the conversion of notes and the exercise of warrants), or the perception that such sales could occur, could materially adversely affect prevailing market prices for the common stock and the ability of the Company to raise equity capital in the future. (19) Certain of the Company’s directors are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies that are engaged in the business of acquiring, developing and exploiting natural resource property and accordingly conflicts of interest may arise. Certain of the Company’s directors are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies that are engaged in the business of acquiring, developing and exploiting natural resource properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such a conflict poses the risk that the Company may enter into a transaction on terms which place the Company in a worse position than if no conflict existed. (20) Management of the Company can through their stock ownership in the Company influence all matters requiring approval by the Company’s stockholders. Management of the Company own collectively as of February 28, 2006, 6,540,234 shares being 29.83% of the Company's issued and outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by the Company’s stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. (21) Foreign Subsidiaries The Company conducts operations through its Chilean subsidiary and substantially all of its assets are held in such entity. Accordingly, any limitation on the transfer of cash or other assets between the parent corporation and the entity could restrict the Company’s ability to fund its operations efficiently. Any such limitations, or the perception that such limitations may exist now or in the future, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s valuation and stock price. (22) Acquisition Strategy As part of the Company’s business strategy, it will continue to seek new mining and development opportunities in the mining industry. In pursuit of such opportunities, the Company may fail to select appropriate acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable arrangements, including arrangements to finance acquisitions or integrate the acquired businesses and their personnel into the Company. The Company cannot assure that it can complete any acquisition or business arrangement that it pursues, or is pursuing, on favourable terms, or that any acquisitions or business arrangements completed will ultimately benefit the Company’s business. 