ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe are currently the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant may also impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Risks Related to Our Business We face substantial competition which, among other things, may lead to price pressure and adversely affect our sales. We compete with other market players on the basis of product quality, responsiveness to customer needs and price. There are two types of steel and iron companies in China: state-owned enterprises and privately owned companies. Criteria important to our customers when selecting a steel supplier include: · Quality; · Price/cost competitiveness; · System and product performance; · Reliability and timeliness of delivery; · New product and technology development capability; · Excellence and flexibility in operations; · Degree of global and local presence; · Effectiveness of customer service; and · Overall management capability. We compete with both SOEs and privately owned steel manufacturers. While we believe that our price and quality are superior to other manufacturers, many of our competitors are better capitalized, more experienced, and have deeper ties in the Chinese marketplace. We consider there to be the following 10 major competitors of similar size, production capability and product line in the market place competing against our four operating subsidiaries as indicated: · Competitors of Daqiuzhuang Metal include: Tianjin No. 1 Rolling Steel Plant, Tianjin Yinze Metal Sheet Plant and Tangshan Fengrun Metal Sheet Plant; · Competitors of Longmen Joint Venture include: Shanxi Haixin Iron and Steel Co., Ltd. and Gansu Jiuquan Iron and Steel Co., Ltd.; · Competitors of Baotou Steel Pipe Joint Venture include: Tianjin Bo Ai Steel Pipe Co., Hebei Cangzhou Zhong Yuan Steel Pipe Co., and Shanxi Taiyuan Guo Lian Steel Pipe Co.; and · Competitors of Maoming include: Guangdong Shao Guan Iron and Steel Group and Zhuhai Yue Yu Feng Iron and Steel Co., Ltd. 11 In addition, with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization and China’s agreements to lift many of the barriers to foreign competition, we believe that competition will increase as a whole with the entry of foreign companies into this market. This may limit our opportunities for growth, lead to price pressure and reduce our profitability. We may not be able to compete favorably and this increased competition may harm our business, our business prospects and results of operations. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Although our revenues have grown rapidly since inception, we might not be able to maintain our profitability or we may incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including our potential failure to: · Implement our business model and strategy and adapt and modify them as needed; · Increase awareness of our brands, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty; · Manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; · Maintain adequate control of our expenses; · Anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation; and · Anticipate mergers and acquisitions, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics involving our competitors. Our business, business prospects and results of operations will be affected if we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks and difficulties. Our inability to fund our capital expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to raise additional capital from outside sources. Our strategy is to grow through aggressive mergers, joint ventures and acquisitions targeting SOE steel companies and selected entities with outstanding potential. Our growth strategy will require us to obtain additional financing through capital markets. In the future, we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on favorable terms, and our failure to do so may weaken our financial position, reduce our competitiveness, limit our growth and reduce our profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any given time may depend on a number of factors, including: · Our financial condition and results of operations; · The condition of the Chinese economy and the industry sectors in which we operate; and · Conditions in relevant financial markets in the United States, China and elsewhere in the world. 12 Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action of the United States and other countries could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The current deep and potentially prolonged global recession that officially began in the United States in December 2007 has, since the beginning of the third quarter of 2008, had a material adverse effect on demand for our products and consequently the results of our operations, financial condition and cash flows. In mid-February 2009, the Federal Reserve warned that the United States economy faces an “unusually gradual and prolonged” period of recovery from this deep and recessionary period. The credit markets worldwide and in the United States have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States government and foreign governments have either implemented or are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The uncertainty surrounding the future of the global credit markets has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in global market conditions, and the regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide, may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow funds as needed. The current market conditions may last longer than we anticipate. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions which could divert management's attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, or be difficult to integrate, which may adversely affect our financial results. We have made several acquisitions, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire companies and technologies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such acquisitions could divert our management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. We might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage such an expansion in an orderly fashion. This growth will lead to an increase in the responsibilities of existing personnel, the hiring of additional personnel and expansion of our scope of operations. It is possible that we may not be able to obtain the required financing under terms that are acceptable to us or hire additional personnel to meet the needs of our expansion. Our business, revenues and profitability are dependent on a limited number of large customers. Our revenue is dependent, in large part, on significant contracts with a limited number of large customers. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 34% of our sales were to five customers and these customers accounted for 1% of total account receivables. We believe that revenue derived from our current and future large customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. Our inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of large contracts or the loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of our major customers would have the effect of reducing our revenues and profitability. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions in China. 13 Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Future economic downturns could decrease the demand for our products. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. We may not be able to pass on to customers the increases in the costs of our raw materials, particularly iron ore and steel coil. The major raw materials that we purchase for production are iron ore and steel coil. The price and availability of these raw materials are subject to market conditions affecting supply and demand. Our financial condition or results of operations may be impaired by further increases in raw material costs to the extent we are unable to pass those increases to our customers. In addition, if these materials are not available on a timely basis or at all, we may not be able to produce our products and our sales may decline. The price of steel may decline due to an overproduction by Chinese steel companies. According to the survey conducted by the China Iron and Steel Association, there are approximately 1000 steel companies in China. Among those, approximately 25 companies have over 5 million metric tons of crude steel production capacity. Each steel company has its own production plan. The Chinese government posted this guidance on the steel industry to encourage consolidation within the fragmented steel sector to mitigate problems of low-end repetitive production and inefficient use of resources. The current situation of overproduction may not be solved by these measures posted by the Chinese government and result in consolidation within the fragmented steel sector. If the current state of overproduction continues, our product shipments could decline, our inventory could build up and eventually we may be required to decrease our sales price, which may eventually decrease our profitability. Disruptions to our manufacturing processes could adversely affect our operations, customer service and financial results. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steel-making equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and such equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated malfunctions or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns. Although our manufacturing plants have not experienced plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events, we may experience such problems in the future. To the extent that lost production as a result of such a disruption could not be recovered by unaffected facilities, such disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, customer service and financial results. Because we are a holding company with substantially all of our operations conducted through our subsidiaries, our performance will be affected by the performance of our subsidiaries. We have no operations independent of those of Daqiuzhuang Metal, Baotou Steel Pipe Joint Venture, Longmen Joint Venture and Maoming and our principal assets are our investments in these subsidiaries. As a result, we are dependent upon the performance of Daqiuzhuang Metal, Baotou Steel Pipe Joint Venture, Longmen Joint Venture and Maoming and we will be subject to the financial, business and other factors affecting our subsidiaries as well as general economic and financial conditions. As substantially all of our operations are and will be conducted through our subsidiaries, we will be dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Because virtually all of our assets are and will be held by operating subsidiaries, the claims of our stockholders will be structurally subordinate to all existing and future liabilities and obligations, and trade payables of such subsidiaries. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. 14 We depend on acquiring companies to fulfill our growth plan. An important element of our planned growth strategy is the pursuit and acquisitions of other businesses that increase our existing production capacity. However, acquiring and integrating businesses involves a number of special risks, including the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations, unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems, problems relating to assimilating and retaining employees of the acquired businesses, challenges in retaining customers, and potential adverse short-term effects on operation results. If we are unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, our growth strategy may be adversely impacted. We depend on bank financing for our working capital needs. We have various financing facilities which are due on demand or within one year. So far, we have not experienced any difficulties in repaying such financing facilities. However, we may in the future encounter difficulties to repay or refinance such loans on time and may face severe difficulties in our operations and financial position. We rely on Mr. Zuosheng Yu for important business leadership. We depend, to a large extent, on the abilities and operations of our current management team. However, we have a particular reliance upon Mr. Zuosheng Yu, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and majority shareholder, for the direction of our business and leadership in our growth effort. The loss of the services of Mr. Yu, for any reason, may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We cannot guarantee that Mr. Yu will continue to be available to us, or that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Yu on a timely basis. We did not have effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 due to material weaknesses, which relate primarily to the disclosure and presentation of financial information under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. We can make no assurances that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. Our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2008, because of the material weaknesses that had been identified and described in Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of the 2008 Form 10-K. Our management has carried out an evaluation, with the participation and under the supervision of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2008 covered by Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. We have identified the following material weaknesses as of December 31, 2008: Insufficient personnel with appropriate accounting knowledge and training. We did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience, and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principles commensurate with financial reporting requirements and did not implement adequate supervisory review to ensure the financial statements at the subsidiary level were prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. This material weakness resulted in audit adjustments that corrected interest capitalization, raw material reserves and long term investment in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. Incomplete related party transaction identification. We did not design and maintain effective controls to identify related party and intercompany transactions, which resulted in material adjustments for intercompany transactions and disclosures of related party transactions in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. See Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” for a more detailed discussion of these material weaknesses. We can make no assurances that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. In addition, pursuant to Auditing Standard No. 5, which is in effect for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. Management has determined that, as of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, the two material weaknesses as described in Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures,” resulted from material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. To remediate these material weaknesses, we have taken and will continue to take a number of remediation measures, as described in Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures.” However, we can make no assurances that we can fully remediate all our material weaknesses or address additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies that may subsequently arise by the year end date of fiscal year 2009, so that our management will be able to conclude that we will have effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. If we cannot implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our registered independent public accounting firm may not be able to provide a written attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, in which event, our registered independent public accounting firm may issue a disclaimer of their audit opinion. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may result in sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, and loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We do not presently maintain product liability insurance in China, and our property and equipment insurance does not cover the full value of our property and equipment, which leaves us with exposure in the event of loss or damage to our properties or claims filed against us. We currently do not carry any product liability or other similar insurance in China. We cannot assure you that we would not face liability in the event of the failure of any of our products. We have purchased automobile insurance with third party liability coverage for our vehicles. In addition, we have purchased property insurance from China United Property Insurance Company to cover real property and plant. Except for property and automobile insurance, we do not have other insurance such as business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. In the event of a significant product liability claim or other uninsured event, our financial results and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. 15 Risks Related to Operating Our Business in China We face the risk that changes in the policies of the Chinese government could have significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in China and the profitability of such business. The economy of China is transitioning from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Policies of the Chinese government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of China. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of market economy under socialism. Under this direction, we believe that China will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in China will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, there can be no assurance that such will be the case. A change in policies by the Chinese government could adversely affect our interests through, among other factors: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades, the Chinese government may significantly alter such policies, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China’s political, economic and social life. The Chinese laws and regulations governing our current business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, any changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. Along with our subsidiaries, we are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under Chinese laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with Chinese laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, the Chinese authorities retain broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses, permits and beneficial treatment issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time under contrary findings of higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations may have on our businesses. We may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations. Such restructuring may not be deemed effective or encounter similar or other difficulties. As a result of these substantial uncertainties, there is a risk that we may be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws or regulations. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the Chinese economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. All of our operations are conducted in China and all of our revenues are generated from sales to businesses operating in China. Although the Chinese economy has grown significantly in recent years, such growth may not continue. We do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the Chinese economy which may affect demand for our products. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in China may materially reduce the demand for our products and in turn adversely effect our results of operations and our productivity. 16 Inflation in China could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the Chinese economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the Chinese government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such an austerity policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, China’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. Repeated increases in interest rates by the central bank will likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products. If relations between the United States and China deteriorate, our stock price may decrease and we may experience difficulties accessing the United States capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could impact the market price of our common stock and our ability to access United States capital markets. The Chinese Government could change its policies toward private enterprises, which could result in the total loss of our investments in China. Our business is subject to political and economic uncertainties in China and may be adversely affected by its political, economic and social developments. Over the past several years, the Chinese government has pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may alter them to our detriment from time to time. Conducting our business might become more difficult or costly due to changes in policies, laws and regulations, or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to stockholders, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises. In addition, nationalization or expropriation could result in the total loss of our investments in China. The Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, requires Chinese residents to register with, or obtain approval from SAFE regarding their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by Chinese residents has undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. A failure by our shareholders who are Chinese residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our Chinese resident shareholders to liability under Chinese law. Our business, results of operations and overall profitability are linked to the economic, political and social conditions in China. All of our business, assets and operations are located in China. The economy of China differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange, and allocation of resources. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the Chinese government has implemented measures recently emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Therefore, the Chinese government’s involvement in the economy may negatively affect our business operations, results of operations and our financial condition. 17 Governmental control of currency conversion may cause the value of your investment in our common stock to decrease. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may cause the value of your investment in our common stock to decrease. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in China, our cash flows, revenues and financial condition will be affected by any significant revaluation of the Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, if the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar, the Renminbi equivalent of the US dollar we convert would be reduced. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. To date, however, we have not engaged in transactions of either type. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Since 1994, China pegged the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. We do not believe that this policy has affected our business. However, there have been indications that the Chinese government may be reconsidering its monetary policy in light of the overall devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and other currencies during the last two years. In July 2005, the Chinese government revalued the Renminbi by 2.1% against the U.S. dollar, moving from Renminbi 8.28 to Renminbi 8.11 per dollar. If the pegging of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar is loosened, we anticipate that the value of the Renminbi will appreciate against the dollar with the consequences discussed above. As of December 31, 2008, the exchange rate of the Remminbi to the U.S. dollar was 6.82 Renminbi to 1 dollar. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations, which may increase our compliance costs and reduce our overall profitability. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in China. We may incur substantial costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. Additionally, these regulations may become stricter, which will increase our costs of compliance in a manner that could reduce our overall profitability. The capital requirements and other expenditures that may be necessary to comply with environmental requirements could increase and become a significant expense linked to the conduct of our business. 18 Our operating subsidiaries must comply with environmental protection laws that could adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with the environmental protection laws and regulations promulgated by the national and local governments of China. Yearly inspections of waste treatment systems require the payment of a license fee which could become a penalty fee if standards are not maintained. If we fail to comply with any of these environmental laws and regulations in China, depending on the types and seriousness of the violation, we may be subject to, among other things, warning from relevant authorities, imposition of fines, specific performance and/or criminal liability, forfeiture of profits made, being ordered to close down our business operations and suspension of relevant permits. Because the Chinese legal system is not fully developed, our legal protections may be limited. The Chinese legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, China’s legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and the array of new laws and regulations may not be sufficient to cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, published government policies and internal rules may have retroactive effects and, in some cases, the policies and rules are not published at all. As a result, we may be unaware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time later. The laws of China govern our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities. The enforcement of these contracts and the interpretation of the laws governing these relationships are subject to uncertainty. For the above reasons, legal compliance in China may be more difficult or expensive. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our officers, directors and affiliates control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our officers, directors and affiliates beneficially own approximately 60% of our common stock. Mr. Zuosheng Yu, our major shareholder, beneficially owns approximately 58% of our common stock. Mr. Yu can effectively control us and his interests may differ from other stockholders. All our subsidiaries are located in China and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the United States and China and, even if civil judgments are obtained in United States courts, such judgments may not be enforceable in Chinese courts. All our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. It is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and China would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Our common stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other steel makers, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. 19 Investors may experience dilution from any conversion of the senior convertible notes and the exercise of warrants we issued in December 2007. We registered the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of approximately $40,000,000 worth of senior convertible notes convertible into 4,170,009 shares of our common stock with a conversion price of $12.47 per share and applicable interest rates and upon the exercise of warrants to purchase an additional aggregate amount of 1,154,958 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $13.51 per share, both issued in December 2007. The issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the notes and exercise of the warrants will dilute current shareholders’ holdings in our company. The senior convertible notes have a five year term through December 12, 2012, and the warrants are exercisable from May 13, 2008, to May 13, 2013. The conversion price will be reset to the Market Price on May 7, 2009, if the conversion price is lower than the Market Price. Market Price means, for any given date, the lower of (x) the arithmetic average of the Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for the thirty (30) consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day immediately preceding such date and (y) the Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding such date. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 