ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. Competition within the steel industry is intense. In the sale of flat rolled carbon steel and silicon steel, the Company competes with competitors on the basis of product quality, responsiveness to customer needs and price. There are two types of steel and iron companies in China: State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and privately owned companies. The Company competes with both state owned and privately owned steel manufacturers. While we believe that our price and quality are superior to other manufacturers, many of our competitors are better capitalized, more experienced, and have deeper ties in the Chinese marketplace. We may be unsuccessful in our attempts to compete, which would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The Company considers there to be three major competitors of similar size, production capability and product line in the market place: Tianjin No. 1 Rolling Steel Plant, Tianjin Yinze Metal Sheet Plant and Tangshan Fengrun Metal Sheet Plant. With the PRC's entry into the World Trade Organization and the PRC's agreements to lift many of the barriers to foreign competition, the Company believes that competition will increase in the PRC agricultural equipment market as a whole with the entry of foreign companies to the market. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We began our operations in 2000. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Although our revenues have grown rapidly since inception, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including our potential failure to: o Implement our business model and strategy and adapt and modify them as needed; o Increase awareness of our brands, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty; o Manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; o Maintain adequate control of our expenses; o Anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the auto parts markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation; o Mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to fund our capital expenditure requirements may adversely affect our growth and profitability. Our continued growth is dependent upon our ability to raise capital from outside sources. We believe that in order to grow our company further, we will seize the opportunity in Chinese state owned enterprise's privatization and set up strategic joint ventures with these SOE companies. That will require us to finance through the capital market. In the future we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial position, competitive position, growth and profitability. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including: o Our financial condition and results of operations, o The condition of the PRC economy and the agricultural equipment industry in the PRC, and o Conditions in relevant financial markets in the U.S., the PRC and elsewhere in the world. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth. If our business and markets grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. This growth will lead to an increase in the responsibilities of existing personnel, the hiring of additional personnel and expansion of our scope of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise the required financing or control and manage this future growth. We depend on large contracts and a concentration of customers. Our revenue is dependent, in large part, on significant contracts from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2005 approximately 37% of sales were to five customers. We believe that revenue derived from current and future large customers will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. Our inability to continue to secure and maintain a sufficient number of large contracts would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain orders from new customers, as well as the financial condition and success of our customers and general economic conditions. We may not be able to pass on to customers increases in the costs of our raw materials, particularly iron and steel. The major raw materials that we purchase for production are steel slabs and strip steel. The price and availability of these raw materials are subject to market conditions affecting supply and demand. Our financial condition or results of operations may be impaired by further increases in raw material costs to the extent we are unable to pass those higher costs to our customers. In addition, if these materials are not available on a timely basis or at all, we may not be able to produce our products and our sales may decline. Risks Related to Operating Our Business in China We face the risk that changes in the policies of the Chinese government could have significant impact upon the business we may be able to conduct in China and the profitability of such business. The economy of China is at a transition from a planned economy to a market oriented economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Policies of the Chinese government can have significant effects on the economic conditions of China. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of market economy under socialism. Under this direction, we believe that the PRC will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in China will follow market forces. While we believe that this trend will continue, there can be no assurance that such will be the case. A change in policies by the Chinese government could adversely affect our interests in by, among other factors: changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation thereof; confiscatory taxation; restrictions on currency conversion, imports or sources of supplies; or the expropriation or nationalization of private enterprises. Although the Chinese government has been pursuing economic reform policies for approximately two decades, there is no assurance that the government will continue to pursue such policies or that such policies may not be significantly altered, especially in the event of a change in leadership, social or political disruption, or other circumstances affecting China's political, economic and social life. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. Our subsidiaries and we are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, the PRC authorities retain broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses, permits and beneficial treatments issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time under contrary findings of higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. We cannot assure you that any such restructuring would be effective or would not result in similar or other difficulties. We may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations. As a result of these substantial uncertainties, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. All of our operations are conducted in the PRC and all of our revenues are generated from sales to businesses operating in the PRC. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. The automotive industry in the PRC is relatively new and growing, but we do not know how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy which may affect demand for cars and trucks, and therefore, auto parts. A slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in the PRC may materially reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business. Inflation in China could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the Chinese economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the Chinese government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such an austerity policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth. In October 2004, the People's Bank of China, China's central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the Chinese economy. Repeated increases in interest rates by the central bank will likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC's political and economic conditions. As we rely entirely on revenues earned in the PRC, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. To date, however, we have not engaged in transactions of either type. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. Since 1994 the PRC has pegged the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. We do not believe that this policy has had a material effect on our business. However, there have been indications that the PRC government may be reconsidering its monetary policy in light of the overall devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and other currencies during the last two years. In July 2005, the PRC government revalued the Renminbi by 2.1% against the U.S. dollar, moving from Renminbi 8.28 to Renminbi 8.11 per dollar. Because of the pegging of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar is loosened, we anticipate that the value of the Renminbi appreciate against the dollar with the consequences discussed above. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect us. The PRC legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the PRC has not developed a fully integrated legal system and the array of new laws and regulations may not be sufficient to cover all aspects of economic activities in the PRC. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, published government policies and internal rules may have retroactive effects and, in some cases, the policies and rules are not published at all. As a result, we may be unaware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time later. The laws of the PRC govern our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities. The enforcement of these contracts and the interpretation of the laws governing these relationships are subject to uncertainty. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our officers, directors and affiliates control us through their positions and stock ownership and their interests may differ from other stockholders. Our officers, directors and affiliates beneficially own approximately 96% of our common stock. Mr. Yu, Zuo Sheng our major shareholder, beneficially owns approximately 76.5% of our common stock and is the selling stockholder herein. Mr. Yu can effectively control us and his interests may differ from other stockholders Because our principal assets are located outside of the United States and most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors in the U.S. or enforce U.S. court judgments against us or them in the PRC. Among all of our directors only one director resides in the United States. In addition, Daqiuzhuang, our operating subsidiary, is located in China substantially all of its assets are located outside of the United States. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the U.S. and the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in U.S. courts, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. We have never paid cash dividends and are not likely to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. There is only a limited trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is now listed on the over-the-counter Bulletin Board. There is currently limited trading market for our common stock and we do not know if any trading market will ever develop. You may be unable to sell your shares due to the absence of a trading market. In addition, broker-dealers who recommend our common stock to people who are not established customers or qualifying investors must follow special sales procedures, including getting the purchaser's written consent prior to the sale. Our common stock is also subject to the "penny stock" rules, which require delivery of a schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks before any sale. See "MARKET PRICE OF AND DIVIDENDS ON THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS." These requirements may further limit your ability to sell your shares. Our common stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other auto parts makers, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 