ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our filings with Securities and Exchange Commission also contain forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks we face described below. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our revenue and net loss could be adversely affected. While historically we have developed and commercialized only a few products at a time, we plan to grow by developing and commercializing multiple products concurrently across many industries, technologies and markets. Our ability to grow by developing and commercializing multiple products simultaneously requires that we manage a diverse range of projects, and expand our personnel resources. Our inability to do any of these could prevent us from successfully implementing our growth strategy, and our revenues and profits could be adversely affected. To advance the development of multiple promising potential products concurrently, we need to manage effectively the logistics of maintaining the requisite corporate, operational, administrative and financing functions for each of these product opportunities. Potentially expanding our operations into new geographic areas and relying on multiple facilities to develop and manufacture different products concurrently pose additional challenges. We have little experience in managing these functions simultaneously for multiple projects in development or in building new infrastructure and integrating the operations of various facilities. If we cannot manage this process successfully, we may be subject to operating difficulties, additional expenditures and limited revenue growth. We need to expand our personnel resources to grow our business effectively. We believe that sustained growth at a higher rate will place a strain on our management, as well as on our other human resources. To manage this growth, we must continue to attract and retain qualified management, professional, scientific and technical and operating personnel. During 2007, the labor market, particularly for highly-specialized scientists 17 Table of Contents and engineers remained tight. If we are unable to recruit a sufficient number of qualified personnel, we may be unable to staff and manage projects adequately, which may slow the rate of growth of our contract research revenue or our product development efforts. If we cannot successfully transition our revenue mix from contract research revenues to product sales and license revenues, we may not be able to fully execute our business model or grow our business. Our business model and future growth depend on our ability to transition to a revenues mix that contains significantly larger product sales and license revenues components. Product sales and license revenues potentially offer greater scalability than services-based contract research revenues. Our current plan is to increase our portfolio of commercial products and, accordingly, we expect that our future product sales and license revenues will represent a larger percentage of total revenues. However, if we are unable to develop and grow our product sales and license revenues to augment our contract research revenues, our ability to execute our business model or grow our business could suffer. We may not be successful in identifying market needs for new technologies and developing new products to meet those needs. The success of our business model depends on our ability to identify correctly market needs for new technologies. We intend to identify new market needs, but we may not always have success in doing so, in part, because our contract research largely centers on identification and development of unproven technologies, often for new or emerging markets. Furthermore, we must identify the most promising technologies from a sizable pool of projects. If our commercialization strategy process fails to identify projects with commercial potential or if management does not ensure that such projects advance to the commercialization stage, we may not successfully commercialize new products and grow our revenues. Our growth strategy requires that we not only identify new technologies that meet market needs, but that we also develop successful commercial products that address those needs. We face several challenges in developing successful new products. Many of our existing products and those currently under development—including our Trimetasphere® carbon nanomaterials, which are nanomaterials in the form of a carbon sphere with three metal atoms enclosed inside—are technologically innovative and require significant and lengthy product development efforts. These efforts include planning, designing, developing and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. These activities require us to make significant investments. Although there are many potential applications for our technologies, our resource constraints require us to focus on specific products and to forgo other opportunities. We expect that one or more of the potential products we choose to develop will not be technologically feasible or will not achieve commercial acceptance, and we cannot predict which, if any, of our products we will successfully develop or commercialize. The technologies we research and develop are new and steadily changing and advancing. The products that are derived from these technologies may not be applicable or compatible with the state of technology or demands in existing markets. Our existing products and technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete if our competitors adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies and changes in customers’ requirements. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify if and when new markets will open for our products given that future applications of any given product may not be readily determinable, and we cannot reasonably estimate the size of any markets that may develop. If we are not able to successfully develop new products, we may be unable to increase our product revenues. We have incurred recent losses, and because our strategy for expansion may be costly to implement, we may experience continuing losses which may be significant. We incurred consolidated net losses of approximately $9.4 million and $7.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant additional expenses as we expand our business, including increased expenses for research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing, finance and accounting personnel and expenses associated with being a public company. We may 18 Table of Contents also grow our business in part through acquisitions of additional companies and complementary technologies which could cause us to incur greater than anticipated transaction expenses, amortization or write-offs of intangible assets and other acquisition-related expenses. As a result, we expect that we may likely continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses could be substantial. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our business and our expansion strategy, we are unable to predict when or if we will be able to achieve profitability again. If our revenues do not increase, or if our expenses increase at a greater rate than our revenues, we will continue to experience losses. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees would adversely affect our business and operating results. The availability of highly trained and skilled technical and professional personnel is critical to our future growth and profitability. Competition for scientists, engineers, technicians and professional personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. We have recently experienced difficulties in recruiting and hiring these personnel as a result of the tight labor market in certain fields. This fact, combined with our growth strategy and future needs for additional experienced personnel, particularly in highly specialized areas such as nanomaterial manufacturing and innovative ultrasound technologies, may make it more difficult to meet all of our needs for these employees in a timely manner. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract and retain these employees, especially in technical fields where the supply of experienced qualified candidates is limited. Any failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our Chairman, CEO and founder, Kent A. Murphy, Ph.D., is essential to our overall management as well as the development of our technologies, our culture and our strategic direction. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, and, except with respect to Kent A. Murphy, Ph.D., we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could seriously harm our business. We rely and will continue to rely on contract research, including government-funded research contracts, for a significant portion of our revenues. A decline in government funding of existing or future government research contracts, including Small Business Innovation Research (or SBIR) revenues, could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows and our ability to fund our growth. Technology development revenue, which consists primarily of government-funded research, accounted for approximately 79.8% and 69.3% of our total consolidated total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. As a result, we are vulnerable to adverse changes in our revenues and cash flows if a significant number of our government research contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or canceled for budgetary, performance or other reasons. The U.S. government may cancel these contracts at any time without cause and without penalty or may change its requirements, programs or contract budget, any of which could reduce our revenues and cash flows from U.S. government research contracts. Our revenues and cash flows from U.S. government research contracts could also be reduced by declines or other changes in U.S. defense, homeland security and other federal agency budgets. In addition, we compete as a small business for some of these contracts, and in order to maintain our eligibility to compete as a small business, we (together with any affiliates) must continue to meet size and revenue limitations established by the U.S. government. In addition to contract cancellations and changes in agency budgets, our future financial results may be adversely affected by curtailment of the U.S. government’s use of contract research providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters. These or other factors could cause U.S. defense and other federal agencies to conduct research internally rather than through commercial research 19 Table of Contents organizations, to reduce their overall contract research requirements or to exercise their rights to terminate contracts. Any of these actions could limit our ability to obtain new contract awards and adversely affect our revenues and cash flows and our ability to fund our growth. We also derive a significant portion of our technology development revenues from SBIR contracts. SBIR revenues accounted for approximately 61% and 47% of our consolidated total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Contract research, including SBIR, may or may not remain a significant portion of our consolidated total revenues, depending on the success of our products and our ability to qualify for SBIR programs. Our strategy for developing innovative technologies and products depends in large part on our ability to continue to enter into and generate revenues from non-SBIR contract research. Our contract research customer base includes government agencies, corporations and academic institutions. Our customers are not obligated to extend their agreements with us. In addition, we may not be successful in securing future contracts. Our customers’ priorities regarding funding for certain projects may change and funding resources may no longer be available at previous levels. We rely and will continue to rely on contracts and grants awarded under the SBIR program for a significant portion of our revenues. A finding by the Small Business Administration, or SBA, that we no longer qualify to receive SBIR funding could adversely affect our business. We may not qualify to participate in the Small Business Administration’s, or SBA’s, SBIR program or receive new SBIR awards from federal agencies in the future. In order to qualify for SBIR contracts and grants, at least 51% of our equity must be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens, or by another entity that is at least 51% owned or controlled by U.S. citizens or permanent resident aliens, and we must have 500 or fewer employees. These eligibility criteria are applied as of the time of the award of a contract or grant. In determining whether we satisfy the 51% equity ownership requirement, agreements to merge, stock options, convertible debt and other similar instruments are given “present effect” by the SBA, as though the underlying securities were actually issued unless the exercisability or conversion of such securities is speculative, remote or beyond the control of the security holder. We therefore believe our outstanding options and warrants held by eligible individuals may be counted as, and our convertible debt may be excluded from, outstanding equity for purposes of meeting the 51% equity ownership requirement. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the SBIR eligibility criteria but we cannot provide assurance that the SBA will interpret its regulations in our favor. We believe that over 60% of our equity is owned or controlled by U.S. citizens, and that we currently have fewer than 500 employees. We must be able to certify that we meet the SBIR ownership and size requirements as of the time we enter into each SBIR contract or grant, and SBA may review our size status in connection with each SBIR contract or grant. As we grow our business, it is foreseeable that we will eventually exceed the SBIR eligibility limitations and we may need to find other sources to fund our research and development efforts. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining additional contracts or funding grants because we cannot meet the eligibility requirements or if our customers decide to reduce or discontinue support of our products, we may be required to seek alternative sources of revenues or capital. The SBA could determine that, as a result of Carilion Clinic’s equity ownership, the number of our employees exceeds the size limitation placed on SBA contract and SBIR grant recipients, and therefore we will not be eligible to receive future SBA contracts and SBIR grants. In addition to the U.S. ownership eligibility criteria discussed above, to be eligible for SBA contracts and SBIR grants, the number of our employees including those of any entities that are considered to be affiliated with us, cannot exceed 500. As of December 31, 2007, including all of our divisions, we had 200 full time employees. However, in determining whether we are affiliated with any other entity, the SBA analyzes whether another entity controls or has the power to control us. If the SBA determines that another entity controls or has the power to control us, it will aggregate that entity’s employees (and the employees of its subsidiaries and affiliates) with our own for purposes of applying the 500 employee test. 20 Table of Contents The SBA may make an affiliation determination based on stock ownership. For example, the SBA may presume that two or more entities have the power to control a company if the entities each own, control or has the power to control, less than 50 percent of the company’s stock, such minority holdings are equal or approximately equal in size, and the aggregate of the minority holdings is large as compared to any other stock holding. However, this presumption may be rebutted by showing that such control or power to control does not in fact exist. As of December 31, 2007, Carilion Clinic held approximately 20.8% of our common stock, and Dr. Kent Murphy held approximately 24.6% of our common stock. Thus, applying the criteria stated above, the SBA could find that both Carilion Clinic and Dr. Murphy own less than 50% of the stock, their percentages are roughly equal, and their respective percentages are large compared to any other stock holding. We believe that the relative beneficial ownership of our individual stockholders rebuts the presumption of control by Carilion Clinic because the shares held by our officers and directors constitute the controlling interest in us. However, if the SBA were to make a determination that we are affiliated with Carilion Clinic, we would exceed the size limitations as Carilion Clinic has over 500 employees, and we therefore would lose eligibility for new SBA contracts, public contracts, grants and other awards that are set aside for small businesses, including SBIR grants. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products or enhance our existing products, enhance our operating infrastructure, complete our development activities, build our commercial scale manufacturing facilities and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds for these investments. If we raise additional funds through issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock, including shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering. Furthermore, such financings may jeopardize our ability to apply for SBIR grants or qualify for SBIR contracts or grants, and our dependence on SBIR grants may restrict our ability to raise additional outside capital. In addition, we may not be able to obtain continued SBIR funding, or other additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. In order to retain SBIR eligibility, we may be restricted in our ability to raise certain forms of equity capital from institutional investors. For example, in connection with the closing of our financing with Carilion Clinic on December 30, 2005, we were not able to raise all proceeds through the issuance of equity without potentially jeopardizing our SBIR eligibility. We therefore elected to issue debt in the amount of $5.0 million of the total $8.0 million raised in such financing to maintain SBIR eligibility. Under the terms of these notes, we agreed that we will not draw down any amount under our existing senior secured credit facility with First National Bank or incur additional indebtedness other than under certain limited conditions. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. If we are unable to secure third-party reimbursement for our health care products, including our EDAC® QUANTIFIER, our revenue and net loss could be adversely affected. In both the United States and foreign markets where we intend to sell our medical products, third-party payors such as the government and health insurance companies are generally responsible for hospital and doctor reimbursement for medical products and services. Governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. Reimbursement rates from private insurance companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third party involved, the insurance plan involved, and other factors. In the United States, reimbursement for medical procedures under the Medicare and Medicaid programs is administered by Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Medicare reimburses both hospitals and physicians a pre-determined, fixed amount based on the procedure performed. This fixed amount is paid regardless of the actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care and is often 21 Table of Contents unrelated to the specific devices used in that procedure. Thus, any reimbursements that hospitals or physicians obtain for using our medical products will generally have to cover any additional costs that hospitals incur in purchasing such products. Hospitals and medical centers to which we intend to sell our EDAC®QUANTIFIER product typically bill the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors’ policies do not permit reimbursement for services performed using our products, demand for our product may be negatively impacted. In countries outside the United States, reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans and labor unions. To sell our product in foreign markets, we may need to seek international reimbursement approvals. We cannot be certain whether such required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would have a negative effect on our product revenue and net loss. We face and will face substantial competition in several different markets that may adversely affect our results of operations. We face or will face substantial competition from a variety of companies in several different markets. Our competitors in contract research include, but are not limited to, companies such as General Dynamics Corporation, Lockheed Martin Corporation, SAIC, Inc. and SRA International, Inc. In the molecular technology solutions products market, our competitors include, but are not limited to, large public manufacturers such as The Dow Chemical Company, E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Rohm and Haas Company and 3M Company, as well as emerging companies. In addition, in the MRI contrast agent market our competitors include Amersham Plc, Berlex Laboratories, Inc., Bracco Diagnostics, Inc., and Mallinckrodt Inc. In the sensor solutions products market, our competitors include, but are not limited to, large companies such as Agilent Technologies, Inc., Analog Devices, Inc., Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., JDS Uniphase Corp., Robert Bosch GmbH and Silicon Sensing, as well as emerging companies. The products that we have developed or are currently developing will compete with other technologically innovative products as well as products incorporating conventional materials and technologies. We expect that our products will compete with companies in a wide range of industries, including semiconductors, electronics, biotechnology, textiles, alternative energy, military, defense, healthcare, telecommunications, industrial measurement, security applications and consumer electronics. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors, in which case our net revenues may fail to increase or may decline. 22 Table of Contents We may be obligated to repay part of the proceeds received in connection with a grant from the City of Danville, Virginia, for failing to make certain agreed upon expenditures and failing to meet certain employment obligations. In March 2004, we received a grant of $900,000 from the City of Danville, Virginia under a Grant Agreement to support the expansion of economic and commercial growth within the City. Under the Grant Agreement, we agreed to locate a nanomaterials manufacturing and research facility and maintain its operations in Danville until March 25, 2009. Our obligations under this Grant Agreement require us to incur significant expenditures in order to retain such proceeds from the grant. Specifically, we agreed under the Grant Agreement to invest at least $5.2 million in capital equipment expenditures and $1.2 million in certain facilities by September 25, 2006 and to maintain such investments in our Danville facility until March 25, 2009. We also agreed to create by September 25, 2006 at least 54 new full-time jobs at the Danville facility at an average annual wage of at least $39,000 plus benefits, and to maintain these jobs at such facility until March 25, 2009. These contractual requirements obligate us to an annual payroll obligation exceeding $2.0 million until March 25, 2009. To the extent such hiring results in salaries in excess of the required minimum wages, our annual payroll obligation could be substantially greater than $2.0 million. As of September 25, 2006, and as of December 31, 2007, we had not fully met these capital expenditures and job milestones, and, as a result, we may be asked to repay the City of Danville a portion of the $900,000 in funds based on a formula of the pro rata shortfall of such expenditures and jobs falling below such required levels. Because of the failure to meet these milestones and the continuing obligation to maintain our investment and employees at this location through March 25, 2009, we currently have classified the full amount of the grant as a liability on our balance sheet in anticipation of potentially returning the funds. We have limited experience manufacturing our products in commercial quantities in a cost-effective manner, which could adversely impact our business. We have produced most of our products on a custom order basis rather than pursuant to large contracts that require production on a large volume basis. Accordingly, other than the commercial manufacture of products by our Luna Technologies Division, we have no experience manufacturing products in large volume. Because our experience in large scale manufacturing is limited, we may encounter unforeseen difficulties in our efforts to manufacture other products or materials in commercial quantities. For example, we may need to develop or in-license Trimetasphere® nanomaterial purification and isolation technology, which would result in manufacturing delays or shortfalls. We may also encounter difficulties and delays in manufacturing our products for the following reasons: • we plan to expand our manufacturing operations, and our production processes may have to change to accommodate this growth; • to increase our manufacturing output significantly, we will have to attract and retain qualified employees, who are in short supply, for the assembly and testing operations; • we might have to sub-contract to outside manufacturers which might limit our control of costs and processes; and • our manufacturing operations may have to comply with government specifications. If we are unable to keep up with demand for our products, our revenues could be impaired, market acceptance for our products could be adversely affected and our customers might instead purchase our competitors’ products. Moreover, failure to develop and maintain a U.S. market for goods developed with U.S. government-licensed technology may result in the cancellation of the relevant U.S. government licenses. Our inability to manufacture our products successfully would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. Even if we are able to manufacture our products on a commercial scale, the cost of manufacturing our products may be higher than we expect. If the costs associated with manufacturing are not significantly less than the prices at which we can sell our products, we may not be able to operate at a profit. 23 Table of Contents We depend on third-party vendors for specialized components in our manufacturing operations, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations that could harm our business. We primarily rely on third-party vendors for the manufacture of the specialized components used in our products. Although we do not have any sole source suppliers of materials, the highly specialized nature of our supply requirements poses risks that we may not be able to locate additional sources of the specialized components required in our business. For example, there are few manufacturers who produce the special lasers used in our optical test equipment. Moreover, none of these third-party vendors is obligated to continue to supply us with components. Our reliance on these vendors subjects us to a number of risks that could impact our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business, including interruption of supply. Although we are now manufacturing tunable lasers in low rate initial production, we expect our overall reliance on third-party vendors to continue. Any significant delay or interruption in the supply of components, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and harm our business. Our nanotechnology-enabled products are new and may be, or may be perceived as being, harmful to human health or the environment. While we believe that none of our current products contain chemicals known by us to be hazardous or subject to environmental regulation, it is possible our current or future products, particularly carbon-based nanomaterials, may become subject to environmental regulation. We intend to develop and sell carbon-based nanomaterials as well as nanotechnology-enabled products, which are products that include nanomaterials as a component to enhance those products’ performance. Nanomaterials and nanotechnology-enabled products have a limited historical safety record. Because of their size or shape or because they may contain harmful elements, such as gadolinium and other rare-earth metals, our products could pose a safety risk to human health or the environment. These characteristics may also cause countries to adopt regulations in the future prohibiting or limiting the manufacture, distribution or use of nanomaterials or nanotechnology-enabled products. Such regulations may inhibit our ability to sell some products containing those materials and thereby harm our business or impair our ability to develop commercially viable products. The subject of nanotechnology has received negative publicity and has aroused public debate. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of nanotechnology. Ethical and other concerns about nanotechnology could adversely affect acceptance of our potential products or lead to government regulation of nanotechnology-enabled products. We face risks associated with our international business. Our Luna Technologies Division and our Luna nanoWorks Division currently conduct business internationally and we might considerably expand our international activities in the future. Our international business operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • having to comply with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates and customers; • changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; • the imposition of tariffs; • hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures; 24 Table of Contents • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown; • the imposition of restrictive trade policies; • the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; • the imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings; • having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • having to comply with licensing requirements. We do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our international business in the future. If we are unsuccessful in our litigation with Hansen Medical, Inc., our business may be materially harmed. On June 22, 2007, Hansen Medical Inc., a company for whom we had conducted certain research, filed a complaint against us in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara alleging misappropriation of trade secrets, unfair competition, breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and declaratory judgment. In addition to money damages in an unspecified amount, the plaintiff company seeks, among other things, equitable relief, including an injunction against our using the allegedly misappropriated trade secrets in connection with another project of ours. We have answered the complaint and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. We also filed a counterclaim asserting claims for misappropriation of trade secrets, unfair competition under the California Business and Professional Code, breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and declaratory judgment. We seek money damages from the counterclaim defendant in an amount to be proven at trial and equitable, including declaratory, relief. While we believe the plaintiff’s claims are without merit, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation. If we do not succeed in prosecuting our claims against Hansen Medical, Inc. or if Hansen Medical, Inc. prevails on one or more of its claims, we may not recover our damages. In addition, if Hansen Medical, Inc. is successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, and we may lose the ability to freely use certain of our intellectual property, any or all of which could materially harm our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT As a provider of contract research to the U.S. government, we are subject to federal rules, regulations, audits and investigations, the violation or failure of which could adversely affect our business. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our government customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at their convenience, as well as for default based on performance. In addition, U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Department of Labor, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management 25 Table of Contents information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, our reputation could suffer serious harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. In addition to the risk of government audits and investigations, U.S. government contracts and grants impose requirements on contractors and grantees relating to ethics and business practices, which carry civil and criminal penalties ranging from monetary fines, assessments, loss of the ability to do business with the U.S. government and certain other criminal penalties. We may also be prohibited from commercially selling certain products that we develop under our Contract Research Group or related products based on the same core technologies if the U.S. government determines that the commercial availability of those products could pose a risk to national security. For example, certain of our wireless technologies have been classified as secret by the U.S. government and as a result we cannot sell them commercially. Any of these determinations would limit our ability to generate product sales and license revenues. Our health care and medical products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain domestic regulatory approval process. If we do not obtain and maintain the necessary domestic regulatory approvals or clearances, we will not be able to market and sell our products for clinical use in the United States. Certain of our current and potential products will require regulatory clearances or approvals prior to commercialization. In particular, our Trimetasphere® nanomaterial-based MRI contrast agent and our EDAC® ultrasound diagnostic devices for measuring certain medical conditions will be considered a drug and medical devices, respectively, under the Federal Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act. Drugs and some medical devices are subject to rigorous preclinical testing and other approval requirements by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, pursuant to the FDC Act, and regulations under the FDC Act, as well as by similar health authorities in foreign countries. Various federal statutes and regulations also govern or influence the testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, packaging, advertising, storage, registration, listing and recordkeeping related to marketing of these products. The process of obtaining these clearances or approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. We cannot be certain that any required FDA or other regulatory approval will be granted or, if granted, will not be withdrawn. Our failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, or our failure to obtain them in a timely manner, will prevent or delay our commercialization of new products and our business or our stock price could be adversely affected. In general, the FDA regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the United States to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In order for us to market our EDAC® or other products for clinical use in the United States, we generally must first obtain clearance from the FDA pursuant to Section 510(k) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which has occurred in the case of the EDAC®. Clearance under Section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. If we significantly modify our products after they receive FDA clearance, the FDA may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or PMA, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the U.S. In addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain FDA approval by submitting a PMA. The FDA may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or PMA submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain FDA clearance or approval, all of which could 26 Table of Contents delay or preclude sale of new products for clinical use in the United States. Furthermore, the FDA may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. The FDA may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a PMA, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). To support a PMA, the FDA would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. We may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, or the FDA may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. In addition, the FDA may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. Product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. Any delays or failure to obtain FDA clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the FDA on new product use, or the costs of obtaining FDA clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Complying with FDA regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process. Our failure to comply fully with such regulations could subject us to enforcement actions. Our commercially distributed medical device products will be subject to numerous post-market regulatory requirements, including the following: • Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; • labeling regulations; • the FDA’s general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses; • the Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may pose a risk to health; and • the Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. We will also become subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our manufacturing facilities do not meet Federal, State or foreign country manufacturing standards, we may be required to temporarily cease all or part of our manufacturing operations, which would result in product delivery delays and negatively impact revenue. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the FDA for compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements contained in the FDA’s Quality System Regulations, or QSR. We are also required to comply with International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in Europe. If we fail to continue to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. Obtaining and maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. We cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. 27 Table of Contents Our medical products are subject to various international regulatory processes and approval requirements. If we do not obtain and maintain the necessary international regulatory approvals, we may not be able to market and sell our medical products in foreign countries. To be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. The European Union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the CE mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the European Union. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. In order to obtain the right to affix the CE mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain European quality standards. We have not yet received permission to affix the CE mark to our medical products. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain permission to affix the CE mark for new or modified products. If we are unable to obtain permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we will not be able to sell our products in member countries of the European Union. We are subject to significant foreign and domestic government regulations, including environmental and health and safety regulations, and failure to comply with these regulations could harm our business. Our facilities and current and proposed activities involve the use of a broad range of materials that are considered hazardous under applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we are subject to a number of foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to health and safety, protection of the environment, and the storage, use, disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes. We could incur costs, fines and civil and criminal penalties, personal injury and third party property damage claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs if we were to violate or become liable under environmental, health and safety laws. Moreover, a failure to comply with environmental laws could result in fines and the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us from conducting our business. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. Accordingly, violations of present and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to expand facilities, pursue certain technologies, and could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur potentially significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. The European Union Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, known as the “WEEE Directive,” requires producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment, including monitoring instruments, to be financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and present covered products placed on the market in the European Union. As a manufacturer of covered products, we may be required to register as a producer in some European Union countries, and we may incur some financial responsibility for the collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of both new product sold, and product already sold prior to the WEEE Directive’s enforcement date, including the products of other manufacturers where these are replaced by our own products. European Union Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the “RoHS Directive,” restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including mercury, lead and cadmium in specified covered products; however, the RoHS Directive currently exempts monitoring instruments from its requirements. If the European 28 Table of Contents Commission were to remove this exemption in the future, we would be required to change our manufacturing processes and redesign products regulated under the RoHS Directive in order to be able to continue to offer them for sale within the European Union. For some products, substituting certain components containing regulated hazardous substances may be difficult, costly or result in production delays. We will continue to review the applicability and impact of both directives on the sale of our products within the European Union, and although we cannot currently estimate the extent of such impact, they are likely to result in additional costs and could require us to redesign or change how we manufacture our products, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Failure to comply with the directives could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, inability to sell covered products in the European Union and loss of revenues. Compliance with foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations represents a small part of our present budget. If we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, however, a government entity may levy a fine on us or require us to take costly measures to ensure compliance. Any such fine or expenditure may adversely affect our development. We are committed to complying with and, to our knowledge, are in compliance with, all governmental regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which future legislation and regulation could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, capital expenditures, or restrictions and delays in the development of our products and properties. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents or trade secrets, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. The degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is also uncertain for products that are currently in the early stages of development—such as the Trimetasphere® carbon nanomaterials products—because we cannot predict which of these products will ultimately reach the commercial market or whether the commercial versions of these products will incorporate proprietary technologies. Our patent position is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications or the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide a basis for commercially viable technologies, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; and • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. 29 Table of Contents Patents may not be issued for any pending or future pending patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and claims allowed under any issued patent or future issued patent owned or licensed by us may not be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Moreover, protection of certain of our intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in the United States or in foreign countries, and certain of our products—including our Trimetasphere® carbon nanomaterials products—do not have foreign patent protection. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us now or in the future may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, and in the case of certain products no foreign patents were filed or can be filed. This could make it easier for competitors to capture or increase their market share with respect to related technologies. Although we are not currently involved in any legal proceedings related to intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to bring suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others or defend ourselves in suits brought against us. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We vigorously pursue confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions with our collaborators, employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and or may not have adequate remedies for such breach. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, or those of our strategic partners, may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes unwilling to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing technologies, and we may not generate enough revenues from product sales to justify the cost of development of our technologies and to achieve or maintain profitability. We also rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for Luna and Luna products. To maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. Also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending trademark applications from challenge by third parties. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. Various U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in our technology areas. Such third parties may claim that we infringe their patents. Because patent applications can take several years to result in a patent issuance, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our technologies may infringe. For example, we are aware of competitors with patents in technology areas applicable to our optical test equipment products. Such competitors may allege that we infringe these patents. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our technologies may inadvertently infringe. If third parties assert claims against us alleging that we infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights—including third parties that have asserted claims against businesses that we have acquired prior to our acquisition of these businesses—we could incur substantial 30 Table of Contents costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, and the defense of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if third parties assert claims against us and we are unsuccessful in defending against these claims, these third parties may be awarded substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief against us, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the United States or abroad. Commercial application of nanotechnologies in particular, or technologies involving nanomaterials, is new and the scope and breadth of patent protection is uncertain. Consequently, the patent positions of companies involved in nanotechnologies have not been tested and complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles will be developed or may remain unresolved. In addition, it is not clear whether such patents will be subject to interpretations or legal doctrines that differ from conventional patent law principles. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our nanotechnology-related intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our nanotechnology-related patents or in third party patents. In the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. However, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A substantial portion of our technology is subject to retained rights of our licensors, and we may not be able to prevent the loss of those rights or the grant of similar rights to third parties. A substantial portion of our technology is licensed from academic institutions, corporations and government agencies. Under these licensing arrangements, a licensor may obtain rights over the technology, including the right to require us to grant a license to one or more third parties selected by the licensor or that we provide licensed technology or material to third parties for non-commercial research. The grant of a license for any of our core technologies to a third party could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, some of our licensors retain certain rights under the licenses, including the right to grant additional licenses to a substantial portion of our core technology to third parties for noncommercial academic and research use. It is difficult to monitor and enforce such noncommercial academic and research uses, and we cannot predict whether the third party licensees would comply with the use restrictions of such licenses. We could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights against them. We also may not fully control the ability to assert or defend those patents or other intellectual property which we have licensed from other entities, or which we have licensed to other entities. In addition, some of our licenses with academic institutions give us the right to use certain technology previously developed by researchers at these institutions. In certain cases we also have the right to practice improvements on the licensed technology to the extent they are encompassed by the licensed patents and within our field of use. Our licensors may currently own and may in the future obtain additional patents and patent applications that are necessary for the development, manufacture and commercial sale of our anticipated products. We may be unable to agree with one or more academic institutions from which we have obtained licenses that certain intellectual property developed by researchers at these academic institutions is covered by our existing licenses. In the event that the new intellectual property is not covered by our existing licenses, we would be required to negotiate a new license agreement. We may not be able to reach agreement with current or future licensors on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or the terms may not permit us to sell our products at a profit after payment of royalties, which could harm our business. Some of our patents may cover inventions that were conceived or first reduced to practice under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. With respect to inventions 31 Table of Contents conceived or first reduced to practice under a federal funding agreement, the U.S. government may retain a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States the invention throughout the world. We may not have succeeded in our efforts to retain title in patents, maintain ownership of intellectual property or in limiting the U.S. government’s rights in our proprietary technologies and intellectual property whether such intellectual property was developed in the performance of a federal funding agreement or developed at private expense. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock price has been volatile and we expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially in the future. Before our initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock, and in the future, an active public trading market may not be sustained. The public trading price for our common stock will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including: • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; • changes in our status as an entity eligible to receive SBIR contracts and grants; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; • announcements by us, or our competitors, of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation; • a lack of, limited or negative industry or security analyst coverage; and • developments in our industry. In addition, the stock prices of many technology companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of the date of our initial public offering, employees and former employees holding approximately 1.8 million shares of our common stock or options exercisable for our common stock had entered into an agreement to not sell more than 20.0% of such shares in any year during the five years following the effective date of our initial public offering, provided that if any shares subject to such annual limit are not sold in a given year then such shares may be sold in subsequent years. In addition, certain members of our management holding options exercisable for approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock had entered into an agreement not to sell more than 15.0% of such shares in any year during the five years following the effective date of such 32 Table of Contents initial public offering. On January 23, 2007, certain members of our management team entered into amended and restated stock sale restriction agreements whereby such officers agreed not to sell more than a fixed number of beneficially held shares of our common stock for a two year period ending December 31, 2008. On February 27, 2008, certain members of our management team entered into a second amended and restated stock sale restriction agreement whereby such officers agreed not to sell more than a fixed number of beneficially held shares of our common stock for a two year period ending December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2007, such officers beneficially owned an aggregate of 4,541,021 shares of our common stock, including vested and unvested options to purchase common stock, which are subject to the sale restriction agreements. We have the right to waive any of these resale restrictions for employees and management at our discretion, and in such instance, the shares would become freely tradable. If our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls, Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include an internal control report with our Annual Report on Form 10-K. That report includes management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue a report on management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and a report on their evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2008. We continue to evaluate our existing internal control over financial reporting against the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB. During the course of our ongoing evaluation of the internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Remedying any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify, may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected, if our internal controls over financial reporting are found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. We have previously identified material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal controls, and if we are unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls we will not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements imposed on reporting companies. Although we do not believe we have material weaknesses or significant deficiencies related to our policies and procedures, we continue to perform specific tests to determine the effectiveness of key controls within these policies and procedures. We intend to monitor those policies and procedures in connection with our formally documented system of internal control. Our maintenance of appropriate internal controls will depend materially both on our successful hiring and retention of key senior accounting personnel If we are unable to retain and attract qualified personnel, to maintain financial reporting and accounting systems or if we are unable to scale these systems to our growth, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with the requirements of the SEC, the NASDAQ Global Market or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market and the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common stock, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability 33 Table of Contents to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements or by disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Future determinations that there are significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period, which may reduce our stock price. Historically, our financial results have exhibited significant seasonality. For example, we typically have lower product and license revenue in the first half of the year and higher product revenue in the second half of the year. We expect such seasonality to continue. In addition, our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk factors” section and, in particular, the following risks: • a reduction of contract research funding; • decisions by government agencies, academic institutions or corporations not to exercise contract options or to modify, curtail or terminate our major contracts; • failure to estimate or control contract costs; • adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes; • expenses related to acquisitions, mergers or joint ventures; • declines in market demand for sensing and instrumentation products; and • other one-time financial charges. As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers collectively controlled approximately 50 % of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2007, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively controlled approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. You and other stockholders will have minimal influence over these actions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could discourage a takeover. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; • a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and • the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. 34 Table of Contents These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 