ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should know, however, that many of the risks described may apply to more than just the subsection in which we grouped them for the purpose of this presentation. As a result, you should consider all of the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our common stock. Risks Impacting Our Funding and Growth If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. We believe that the success of a commercial finance business like ours depends on our ability to increase our interest-earning assets while continuing to maintain disciplined origination and credit decision-making. To that end, from our inception to December 31, 2005, our assets have grown to $7.0 billion and as of December 31, 2005, we had 520 employees and 23 offices. We must continue to refine and expand our marketing capabilities, our management procedures, our internal controls and procedures, our access to financing sources and our technology. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. In addition our recent election to be taxed as a REIT has imposed added challenges on our senior management and other employees, who together must monitor our REIT compliance obligations, develop new real estate-related product offerings and make appropriate alterations to our loan origination, marketing and monitoring efforts. We may not be able to hire and train sufficient lending and administrative personnel or develop management and operating systems to manage our expansion effectively. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations, REIT compliance and financial results could be adversely affected. Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to obtain external financing. We require a substantial amount of money to make new loans and to fund obligations to existing clients. As a REIT, we are even more dependent on external sources of capital than we have been in the past. This increased dependence results from the requirement that to qualify as a REIT we generally have to distribute to our shareholders 90% of our taxable income, including taxable income where we do not receive corresponding cash. In the past, we have obtained the cash required for our operations through the issuance of equity, convertible debentures and subordinated debt, and by borrowing money through credit facilities, term debt and repurchase agreements. Our continued access to these and other types of external capital depends upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings, cash distributions and the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that sufficient funding or capital will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. If our lenders terminate or fail to renew any of our credit facilities or repurchase agreements, we may not be able to continue to fund our business. At December 31, 2005, we had eight credit facilities totaling $4.1 billion in commitments. The majority of our loans that we have not securitized are held in these facilities. Under the terms of these facilities, we receive the cash flow generated by our loans held in these facilities after deductions for monthly interest and fee payments payable to our lenders. Several of the credit facilities are renewable annually and the repurchase agreements generally have terms of one year or less. Additionally, these facilities contain customary representations and warranties, covenants, conditions and events of default that if breached, not satisfied or triggered could result in termination of the facilities. Consequently, if one or more of these facilities were to terminate prior to its expected maturity date or if any such facility were not renewed, our liquidity position 15 would be materially adversely affected, and we may not be able to satisfy our outstanding loan commitments, originate new loans or continue to fund our operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to extend the term of any of our existing financing arrangements or obtain sufficient funds to repay any amounts outstanding under any financing arrangement before it expires, either from one or more replacement financing arrangements or an alternative debt or equity financing. If we were unable to repay or refinance any amounts outstanding under any of our existing financing arrangements, our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course would be severely impaired. Even if we are able to refinance our debt, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. If we are not able to obtain additional funding on favorable terms or at all, our ability to grow our business will be severely impaired. Our use of significant leverage could adversely affect our residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolio and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We have borrowed significant funds to finance the acquisition of the assets comprising our portfolio of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities through repurchase agreements and securitizations. Our use of repurchase facilities to finance the purchase of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities exposes us to the risk that a decrease in the value of such assets may cause our lenders to make margin calls that we may not be able to satisfy. To meet margin calls, we may have to sell residential mortgage loans and/or mortgage-backed securities, which could result in realized losses and negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we fail to meet a margin call or if we are required to sell residential mortgage loans and/or mortgage-backed securities to meet a margin call, our ability to comply with the REIT asset tests could be adversely affected. Furthermore, because the disposition of only part of a whole pool of mortgage-backed securities that we hold could adversely affect our exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940, the effect of a margin call could be compounded by the fact that we might be required to dispose of the entire pool of securities on which the margin call was made. See Off-Balance Sheet Risk in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in our audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 for a discussion of the accounting treatment for these mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2005. Further, the percentage of leverage we are able to employ with respect to our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, and the cost of that leverage, varies depending on market conditions. Our debt service payments reduce cash flow available for distributions to shareholders. To the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from our mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, the return on such assets and the cash available for distribution to our shareholders may be reduced. The borrowing costs on our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities could increase relative to the interest we receive on such investments, thereby negatively affecting cash available for distribution to our shareholders. As our repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing instruments mature, we will be required to enter into new repurchase agreements, other short-term borrowings or alternative term financing agreements. An increase in short-term interest rates at the time that we seek to enter into new repurchase agreements may reduce the spread between our returns on the investments in our residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolio and the cost of our borrowings. This change in interest rates would adversely affect our returns on such investments that are fixed rate and/or subject to prepayment or extension risk, which might reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Our lenders could terminate us as servicer of our loans held as collateral for our credit facilities or term debt, which would adversely affect our ability to manage our portfolio. Upon the occurrence of specified servicer defaults, our lenders under our credit facilities and the holders of our asset-backed notes issued in our term debt transactions may elect to terminate us as servicer of the 16 loans under the applicable facility or term debt transaction and appoint a successor servicer. If we were terminated as servicer, we would no longer receive our servicing fee. In addition, because there could be no assurance that any successor servicer would be able to service the loans according to our standards, any transfer of servicing to a successor servicer could result in reduced or delayed collections, delays in processing payments and information regarding the loans and a failure to meet all of the servicing procedures required by the applicable servicing agreement. Consequently, the performance of our loans could be adversely affected and our income generated from those loans significantly reduced. Our liquidity position could be adversely affected if we were unable to complete additional term debt transactions on favorable terms or at all. We have completed seven term debt transactions with respect to loans in our commercial lending portfolio, all of which we accounted for on-balance sheet, through which we raised $4.2 billion in debt capital to pay down our borrowings under our credit facilities and to create additional liquidity under our credit facilities for use in funding our loans. Our term debt consists of asset securitization transactions in which we transfer loans to a trust that aggregates our loans and, in turn, sells notes collateralized by the trust’s assets to institutional investors. The securities issued by the trusts have been rated by three nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. We intend to continue to incur term debt through on-balance sheet asset securitization transactions in the future. Relevant considerations regarding our ability to complete additional term debt transactions include: • to the extent that the capital markets generally, and the asset-backed securities market in particular, suffer disruptions, we may be unable to complete term debt transactions; • disruptions in the credit quality and performance of our loan portfolio, particularly that portion which has been previously securitized and serves as collateral for existing term debt transactions, could reduce or eliminate investor demand for our term debt transactions in the future; • our ability to service our loan portfolio must continue to be perceived as adequate to make the securities issued attractive to investors; • any material downgrading or withdrawal of ratings given to securities previously issued in our term debt transactions would reduce demand for additional term debt transactions by us; • our term debt transactions require the delivery of legal opinions from our counsel to the effect that the transactions constitute true sales of our loans to bankruptcy-remote special purpose entities whose assets would not be consolidated with ours in the event of our future bankruptcy. To the extent the legal landscape changed or our counsel otherwise determined that they could no longer render these opinions, our ability to consummate additional term debt transactions on favorable terms could be impaired. Furthermore, changes in the legal landscape or the inability to render these opinions could have adverse effects on our existing term debt transactions; and • structural changes imposed by the rating agencies or investors may reduce the leverage we are able to obtain, increase the cost and otherwise adversely affect the efficiency of our term debt transactions. If we are unable to continue completing these term debt transactions on favorable terms or at all, our ability to obtain the capital needed for us to continue to grow our business would be adversely affected. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our growth and stock price. The cash flows we receive from the interests we retain in our term debt transactions could be delayed or reduced due to the requirements of the term debt, which could impair our ability to originate new loans or fund commitments under existing loans. We retain the most junior classes of securities issued in our term debt transactions. The securities issued in these term debt transactions that we did not retain are senior to the junior securities we did retain. Our receipt of future cash flows on those junior securities is governed by provisions that control the distribution of cash flows from the loans included in our term debt transaction. In some of our term debt transactions, 17 principal cash flows from those loans must be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the senior notes issued in the term debt transactions and are not available to us until the full principal balance of the senior notes has been repaid. On a monthly basis, interest cash flows from the loans in all of our term debt transactions must first be used to pay the interest on the senior notes, expenses of the term debt transaction and to maintain a required minimum interest reserve. Any related interest cash flows remaining after the payment of these amounts plus any reductions in the minimum interest reserve are distributed to us. Several factors may influence the timing and amount of the cash flows we receive from loans included in our term debt transactions, including: • If any loan included in a term debt transaction becomes delinquent, the full principal balance of that loan must be included in the interest reserve. We will not receive any distributions from interest cash flows until the interest reserve is fully funded. • If a loan included in a term debt transaction has defaulted or is charged off, the full principal balance of that loan must be distributed to the senior noteholders to reduce the outstanding balance of the senior notes. We will not receive any distributions from interest cash flows until the full amount of defaulted and charged-off loans has been distributed. • Changes in interest rates and repayment schedules may increase the amount of interest cash flows necessary to fund hedge payments required by, and costs associated with, our term debt transactions. As a result, interest cash flows must be used to make payments related to the hedging arrangements, thereby reducing the cash flows available to us. • If the actual prepayment rate of the loans included in a term debt transaction is less than the estimated prepayment rate assumed under that term debt transaction, the notes issued under that term debt transaction will remain outstanding past their expected maturities. In such event, interest cash flows must be used to pay the principal value of the senior notes issued in the term debt transaction until they are fully repaid, thereby eliminating the cash flows available to us until after the senior notes are fully repaid. The poor performance of a pool of loans we securitize could increase the expense of our subsequent securitizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. The poor performance of a pool of loans that we securitize could increase the expense of any subsequent securitization we bring to market. Increased expenses on our securitizations could reduce the net interest income we receive on our loan portfolio. A change in the market’s demand for our term debt securities or a decline or disruption in the securitization market generally could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Fluctuating or rising interest rates could adversely affect our profit margins and ability to grow our business. We borrow money from our lenders at variable interest rates. We generally lend money at variable rates based on the prime rate. Our operating results and cash flow depend on the difference between the interest rate at which we borrow funds and the interest rate at which we lend these funds. We also make, on a more limited basis, fixed rate loans. Most of the borrowings that we use to finance our loans require the payment of interest at variable interest rates. To the extent that our costs of borrowing increase, our yields on our fixed rate loan products will decline and, if interest rates increased significantly, it could result in a negative yield. Such declines could materially adversely affect our net income and operating profits. In addition, changes in market interest rates, or in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or between different interest rate indices, could affect the interest rates charged on 18 interest earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest bearing liabilities, which could result in an increase in interest expense relative to our interest income. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for investment or distribution to our shareholders. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging strategies. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on a number of factors including the level of interest rates, the type of portfolio investments held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions to offset interest rate losses is limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Our hedging activity may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Therefore, while we pursue such transactions to reduce our interest rate risks, it is possible that unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish, or there may not be, a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearinghouse, or regulated by any governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no regulatory requirements on our hedging counterparties with respect to matters such as record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. 19 We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Part of our investment strategy will involve entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances. These potential payments will be contingent liabilities and therefore may not appear on our balance sheet. Our ability to fund these contingent liabilities will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these contingent liabilities could adversely impact our financial condition. Risk Related to Our Operations as a REIT We have no prior experience operating as a REIT. From our commencement of operations in September 2000 through December 31, 2005, we were organized first as a limited liability company and then as a C-corporation. We intend to make an election to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our 2006 tax year. Our senior management has limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under the highly complex tax rules governing REITs, which may hinder our ability to achieve our investment objectives. In addition, maintaining our REIT qualification will influence the types of investments we are able to make. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to operate our business successfully within the REIT structure or in a manner that enables us consistently to pay dividends to our shareholders. Changes as a result of our REIT election may make it difficult for investors to compare our operating results with those of prior periods. During late 2005 and early 2006, we made changes to our operations to help us attain and maintain compliance with the REIT tax rules. These changes, and their impact on our financial reporting and results of operations, could mean that our past operating results and history may not provide an accurate basis on which to evaluate the merits and risks associated with an investment in our common stock. Among other changes, to the extent practicable, we separated our operations to divide our real estate lending activities, which we intend to conduct through CSE Mortgage LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary, from our non-real estate lending activities, which we expect to continue to conduct through CapitalSource TRS Inc. and its subsidiaries. Prior to the end of the first quarter 2006, we plan to make elections to cause CapitalSource TRS Inc. to be taxed as a “taxable REIT subsidiary,” or TRS, under Section 856(l) of the Internal Revenue Code. Although REITs generally are not subject to federal corporate income tax on net taxable income that is distributed currently to shareholders in the form of dividends, TRSs are subject to corporate level income taxes. Our use of these and our other TRSs enables us to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities. However, under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation affects our ability to make investments in non-REIT qualifying operations. Furthermore, our current and expected future use of TRSs may cause the market to value our common stock differently than the shares of other REITs, which may not use TRSs as extensively as we use them. To help us comply with the REIT tax rules that limit the ability of REITs to earn servicing and other fees that we have historically generated in our lending business, we entered into a management agreement with CapitalSource Finance LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of CapitalSource TRS Inc., to manage our REIT business and investments. Under the terms of this agreement, CapitalSource Finance will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close and monitor our real estate investments, in addition to performing other management services of the types typically performed by external managers of mortgage REITs, in exchange for a quarterly fee calculated based on our shareholders’ equity. The expanded array of real estate-based lending products we have introduced in connection with our REIT election, including our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities investing activity, could make it more difficult for our investors to compare our 2006 financial statements with those of prior periods. 20 We could lack access to funds to meet our dividend and tax obligations. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding capital gains, to maintain our REIT qualification, and we need to distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income, including capital gains, to eliminate federal income tax liability. Moreover, we are subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of the required distribution over the sum of the amounts actually distributed and amounts retained for which federal income tax was paid, if the amount we distribute during a calendar year (plus excess distributions made in prior years) does not equal at least the sum of 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year, 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for the year and any undistributed taxable income from prior taxable years. We also could be required to pay taxes and liabilities attributable to periods and events prior to our REIT election and additional taxes if we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any given year. The amount of funds, if any, available to us could be insufficient to meet our dividend and tax obligations. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities and limit our ability to fund dividend payments using cash generated through our TRSs. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our stock. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including investments in the businesses conducted by our TRSs. Our ability to receive dividends from the TRSs from which we would make distributions to our shareholders is limited by the rules with which we must comply to maintain our status as a REIT. In particular, at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by “real estate assets,” cash, cash items, and government securities. Real estate assets include debt instruments secured by mortgages on real property, shares of other REITs, and stock or debt instruments held for less than one year purchased with the proceeds of an offering of shares or long-term debt. In addition, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property or interests in real property, certain gains from the sale or other disposition of such obligations, and certain other types of real estate income. No more than 25% of our gross income may consist of dividends from the TRSs and other non-qualifying types of income. As a result, even if our non-REIT activities conducted through TRSs were to become highly profitable, we might be limited in our ability to receive dividends from the TRSs in an amount necessary to fund required dividends to our shareholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any given year, we will have reduced funds available for distribution to our shareholders, and our income will be subject to taxation at regular corporate rates. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we might not succeed in qualifying as a REIT for any particular year, including 2006. Furthermore, our qualification as a REIT depends on our continuing satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests will depend upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination. Our compliance with the REIT annual income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. With respect to our compliance with the REIT organizational requirements, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, could contend that our ownership interests in TRSs or securities of other issuers would give rise to a violation of the REIT requirements. If in any taxable year we fail to qualify as a REIT, • we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income; and • we will be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. 21 Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn would likely have a material adverse impact on the value of our common stock. In addition, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which the qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions. If we were to avail ourselves of one or more of these statutory savings provisions to maintain our REIT status, we nevertheless would be required to pay penalty taxes of $50,000 or more for each failure. As a result, net income and the funds available for distribution to our shareholders could be reduced for up to five years or longer, which would have a continuing material adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Even if we qualify as a REIT, any gain or income recognized by our TRSs, either as a result of regular operations or in connection with our REIT election related restructuring transactions, will be subject to federal corporate income tax and applicable state and local taxes. Our business activities are potentially subject to prohibited transactions tax or corporate level tax. REITs are generally passive entities and thus only can engage in those activities permitted by the Code, which for us generally includes our real estate based lending activities and the complementary activities in which we engage, such as sale/leaseback transactions and acquiring whole pools of mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. Accordingly, we conduct our non-real estate lending activities through multiple TRSs, which are subject to corporate level tax, because such activities generate non-qualifying REIT income. Also, we limit the asset disposition activity that we engage in directly (that is, outside of our TRSs) because certain asset dispositions conducted regularly and directly by us could constitute “prohibited transactions” that could be subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are defined by the Code to be sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business other than property with respect to which a “foreclosure property” election is made. By conducting our business in this manner, we believe that we satisfy the REIT requirements of the Code and avoid the 100% tax that could be imposed if a REIT were to conduct a prohibited transaction; however, this operational constraint may prevent us from disposing of one or more of our real estate-based loans to obtain liquidity or to reduce potential losses with respect to non-performing assets. We may not always be successful, however, in limiting such activities to any TRSs. Therefore, we could be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax if such instances were to occur. The requirements of the Investment Company Act impose limits on our operations that impact the way we acquire and manage our assets and operations as a REIT. We conduct our operations so as not to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the Investment Company Act. We rely on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act. Our ability to originate loans and acquire other assets is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we fail to own a sufficient amount of qualifying assets to satisfy the requirements of Section 3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act and could not rely on any other exemption or exclusion under the Investment Company Act, we could be characterized as an investment company. The characterization of us as an investment company would require us to either (i) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (ii) register as an investment company. Any modification of our business plan for these purposes could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, if we were determined to be an unregistered investment company, we could be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the SEC, we may be unable to enforce contracts with third parties and third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. In addition, we currently employ a degree of leverage in our business that would not be permissible for a company regulated under the Investment Company Act. If we were determined to be an investment company, we would have to restructure our operations dramatically, and also possibly raise substantial amounts of additional equity to come into compliance with the limitations prescribed under the Investment Company Act. Finally, because affiliate transactions are prohibited under the Investment Company Act, failure to maintain our 22 exemption would force us to terminate our agreements with affiliates. Any of these results would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial results and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Rapid changes in the values of our residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and other real estate assets may make it more difficult for us to maintain our REIT status or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the market value or income potential of our mortgage-backed securities and our other real estate assets decline as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets to maintain our REIT status and/or our exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of many of our assets. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. The lack of share ownership and transfer restrictions in our charter may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT in any particular year and, if such restrictions are added to our charter, they may discourage strategic transactions that would maximize shareholder value. As a REIT, we may not have five or fewer individuals who own, directly or indirectly after applying attribution of ownership rules, 50% or more of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock. Although it is not required by law or the REIT provisions of the Code, many existing REITs have adopted ownership and transfer restrictions in their articles of incorporation or organizational documents which prevent five or fewer individuals from owning, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the value of the outstanding shares of these entities. We do not currently have such restrictions in our charter. We intend to submit an amendment to our charter providing for ownership and transfer restrictions to our shareholders for their approval at our 2006 annual meeting, but we cannot assure you that this proposal will be adopted by our shareholders. If our charter is not amended, the possibility exists that five or fewer individuals could acquire 50% or more of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, which could result in our failure to qualify as a REIT or the loss of such qualification in the future. If our charter is amended as proposed, the ownership limitation could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. Risks Related to Our Lending Activities We may not recover the value of amounts that we lend. We experienced charge offs of $13.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and expect to experience charge offs in the future. We charge off loans against the allowance for loan losses when full collection of the principal from the sale of collateral or the enforcement of guarantees is remote. We do not necessarily wait until the final resolution of a loan to charge off the uncollectible balance. As of December 31, 2005, we had an allowance for loan losses of $87.4 million, of which $33.1 million was allocated to impaired loans, reflecting our judgment of the probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio. If we were to experience 23 material losses on our portfolio, they would have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our business and, to the extent the losses exceed our provision for loan losses, our revenues, net income and assets. In addition, like other commercial finance companies, we have experienced missed and late payments, failures by clients to comply with operational and financial covenants in their loan agreements and client performance below that which we expected when we originated the loan. Any of the events described in the preceding sentence may be an indication that our risk of credit loss with respect to a particular loan has materially increased. We make loans to privately owned small and medium-sized companies, which present a greater risk of loss than loans to larger companies. Our portfolio consists primarily of commercial loans to small and medium-sized, privately owned businesses with annual revenues ranging from $5 million to $500 million. Compared to larger, publicly owned firms, these companies generally have more limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. These financial challenges may make it difficult for our clients to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on our loans. Accordingly, advances made to these types of clients entail higher risks than advances made to companies who are able to access traditional credit sources. Numerous factors may affect a client’s ability to make scheduled payments on its loan, including the failure to meet its business plan or a downturn in its industry. In part because of their smaller size, our clients may: • experience significant variations in operating results; • have narrower product lines and market shares than their larger competitors; • be particularly vulnerable to changes in customer preferences and market conditions; • be more dependent than larger companies on one or more major customers, the loss of which could materially impair their business, financial condition and prospects; • face intense competition, including from companies with greater financial, technical, managerial and marketing resources; • depend on the management talents and efforts of a single individual or a small group of persons for their success, the death, disability or resignation of whom could materially harm the client’s financial condition or prospects; • have less skilled or experienced management personnel than larger companies; or • do business in regulated industries, such as the healthcare industry, and could be adversely affected by policy or regulatory changes. Accordingly, any of these factors could impair a client’s cash flow or result in other events, such as bankruptcy, which could limit that client’s ability to repay its obligations to us, and may lead to losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our revenues, net income and assets. We may be adversely affected by deteriorating economic or business conditions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by various economic factors, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate. Delinquencies, foreclosures and credit losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Because we lend primarily to small and medium-sized businesses, many of our clients may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on their borrowings during these periods. Therefore, to the extent that economic activity or conditions deteriorate, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of the collateral securing some of our loans as well as the 24 value of our equity investments. Further economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in our revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions may also make it more difficult for us to maintain both our new business origination volume and the credit quality of new business at levels previously attained. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could significantly harm our operating results. Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to accurately judge the credit performance of our portfolio and, as a result, increases the risk that our allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our clients. While we conduct extensive due diligence and a thorough review of the creditworthiness of each of our clients, this review requires the application of significant judgment by our management. Our judgment may not be correct. We maintain an allowance for loan losses on our financial statements in an amount that reflects our judgment concerning the potential for losses inherent in our portfolio. Management periodically reviews the appropriateness of our allowance considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators. While we revised our loan loss reserve policy in 2005, we cannot assure you that our estimates and judgment with respect to the appropriateness of our allowance for loan losses are accurate. Our allowance may not be adequate to cover credit losses in our portfolio as a result of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific clients, industries or markets. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our net income will suffer, and our financial performance and condition could be significantly impaired. We may not have all of the material information relating to a potential client at the time that we make a credit decision with respect to that potential client or at the time we advance funds to the client. As a result, we may suffer losses on loans or make advances that we would not have made if we had all of the material information. There is generally no publicly available information about the privately owned companies to which we generally lend. Therefore, we must rely on our clients and the due diligence efforts of our employees to obtain the information that we consider when making our credit decisions. To some extent, our employees depend and rely upon the management of these companies to provide full and accurate disclosure of material information concerning their business, financial condition and prospects. If we do not have access to all of the material information about a particular client’s business, financial condition and prospects, or if a client’s accounting records are poorly maintained or organized, we may not make a fully informed credit decision which may lead, ultimately, to a failure or inability to recover our loan in its entirety. We may make errors in evaluating accurate information reported by our clients and, as a result, we may suffer losses on loans or advances that we would not have made if we had properly evaluated the information. We underwrite our loans based on detailed financial information and projections provided to us by our clients. Even if clients provide us with full and accurate disclosure of all material information concerning their businesses, our investment officers, underwriting officers and credit committee members may misinterpret or incorrectly analyze this information. Mistakes by our staff and credit committee may cause us to make loans that we otherwise would not have made, to fund advances that we otherwise would not have funded or result in losses on one or more of our existing loans. A client’s fraud could cause us to suffer losses. A client could defraud us by, among other things: • directing the proceeds of collections of its accounts receivable to bank accounts other than our established lockboxes; 25 • failing to accurately record accounts receivable aging; • overstating or falsifying records showing accounts receivable or inventory; or • providing inaccurate reporting of other financial information. The failure of a client to accurately report its financial position, compliance with loan covenants or eligibility for additional borrowings could result in the loss of some or all of the principal of a particular loan or loans including, in the case of revolving loans, amounts we may not have advanced had we possessed complete and accurate information. Our concentration of loans to a limited number of borrowers within a particular industry, such as the commercial real estate or healthcare industry, or region could impair our revenues if the industry or region were to experience economic difficulties. Defaults by our clients may be correlated with economic conditions affecting particular industries or geographic regions. As a result, if any particular industry or geographic region were to experience economic difficulties, the overall timing and amount of collections on our loans to clients operating in those industries or geographic regions may differ from what we expected and result in material harm to our revenues, net income and assets. For example, as of December 31, 2005, loans representing 19% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio were secured by commercial real estate other than healthcare facilities. If the commercial real estate sector were to experience economic difficulties, we could suffer losses on these loans. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, loans representing 24% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio were to clients in the healthcare industry. Reimbursements under the Medicare and Medicaid programs comprise the bulk of the revenues of many of these clients. Our clients’ dependence on reimbursement revenues could cause us to suffer losses in several instances. • If clients fail to comply with operational covenants and other regulations imposed by these programs, they may lose their eligibility to continue to receive reimbursements under the program or incur monetary penalties, either of which could result in the client’s inability to make scheduled payments to us. • If reimbursement rates do not keep pace with increasing costs of services to eligible recipients, or funding levels decrease as a result of increasing pressures from Medicare and Medicaid to control healthcare costs, our clients may not be able to generate adequate revenues to satisfy their obligations to us. • If a healthcare client were to default on its loan, we would be unable to invoke our rights to the pledged receivables directly as the law prohibits payment of amounts owed to healthcare providers under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to be directed to any entity other than the actual providers. Consequently, we would need a court order to force collection directly against these governmental payors. There is no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining this type of court order. As of December 31, 2005, our ten largest clients collectively accounted for approximately 12% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio and our largest client accounted for approximately 2% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio. We may not retain control over our joint venture investments which may increase the risk of loss with respect to such investment. We are parties to three joint ventures, and we anticipate that we may structure additional investments through joint ventures in the future. We may not have control of the operations of the joint ventures in which we invest. Therefore, these investments may, under certain circumstances involve risks such as the possibility that our partner in an investment might become bankrupt, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or our policies or objectives. As a result, these investments may be subject to additional risks than investments for 26 which we have full operational or management responsibility. Although we will generally seek to maintain a sufficient level of control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. Because of the nature of our loans and the manner in which we disclose client and loan concentrations, it may be difficult to evaluate our risk exposure to any particular client or group of related clients. We use the term “client” to mean the legal entity that is the borrower party to a loan agreement with us. We have several clients that are related to each other through common ownership and/or management. Because we underwrite all of these loans separately, we report each loan to one of these clients as a separate loan and each client as a separate client. In situations where clients are related through common ownership, to the extent the common owner suffered financial distress, it could be unable to continue to support our clients, which could, in turn, lead to financial difficulties for those clients. Further, some of our healthcare clients are managed by the same entity, and to the extent that management entity suffered financial distress or was otherwise unable to continue to manage the operations of the related clients, those clients could, in turn face financial difficulties. In both of these cases, our clients could have difficulty servicing their debt to us, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be unable to recognize or act upon an operational or financial problem with a client in a timely fashion so as to prevent a loss of our loan to that client. Our clients may experience operational or financial problems that, if not timely addressed by us, could result in a substantial impairment or loss of the value of our loan to the client. We may fail to identify problems because our client did not report them in a timely manner or, even if the client did report the problem, we may fail to address it quickly enough or at all. As a result, we could suffer loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. Most of our loans bear interest at variable interest rates. To the extent interest rates continue to increase monthly interest obligations of our clients will also increase. Some of our clients may not be able to make the increased interest payments, resulting in defaults on their loans. Our balloon loans and bullet loans may involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 88% of the outstanding balance of our loans comprised either balloon loans or bullet loans. A balloon loan is a term loan with a series of scheduled payment installments calculated to amortize the principal balance of the loan so that upon maturity of the loan more than 25%, but less than 100%, of the loan balance remains unpaid and must be satisfied. A bullet loan is a loan with no scheduled payments of principal before the maturity date of the loan. All of our revolving loans and some of our term loans are bullet loans. Balloon loans and bullet loans involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans because they require the borrower to make a large final payment upon the maturity of the loan. The ability of a client to make this final payment upon the maturity of the loan typically depends upon its ability either to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the loan prior to maturity, to refinance the loan or to sell the related collateral securing the loan, if any. The ability of a client to accomplish any of these goals will be affected by many factors, including the availability of financing at acceptable rates to the client, the financial condition of the client, the marketability of the related collateral, the operating history of the related business, tax laws and the prevailing general economic conditions. Consequently, the client may not have the ability to repay the loan at maturity and we could lose some or all of the principal of our loan. 27 We are limited in pursuing certain of our rights and remedies under our Term B, second lien and mezzanine loans, which may increase our risk of loss on these loans. We make Term B, second lien and mezzanine loans. Term B loans, which comprised 4% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005, are senior secured loans that are equal as to collateral and junior as to right of payment to obligations to clients’ other senior loans. Second lien loans are junior as to both collateral and right of payment to obligations to clients’ senior loans. Mezzanine loans may not have the benefit of any lien against the client’s collateral and are junior to any lienholder both as to collateral and payment. Collectively, second lien and mezzanine loans comprised 4% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005. As a result of their junior nature, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect principal and interest on these loans or to recover any of the loan balance through a foreclosure of collateral. For example, typically we are not contractually entitled to receive payments of principal on a junior loan until the senior loan is paid in full, and may only receive interest payments on a Term B, second lien or mezzanine loan if the client is not in default under its senior loan. In many instances, we are also prohibited from foreclosing on a Term B, second lien or mezzanine loan until the senior loan is paid in full. Moreover, any amounts that we might realize as a result of our collection efforts or in connection with a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding involving a client under a Term B, second lien or mezzanine loan must generally be turned over to the senior lender until the senior lender has realized the full value of its own claims. These restrictions may materially and adversely affect our ability to recover the principal of any non-performing Term B, second lien or mezzanine loans. The collateral securing a loan may not be sufficient to protect us from a partial or complete loss if the loan becomes non-performing, and we are required to foreclose. While most of our loans are secured by a lien on specified collateral of the client, there is no assurance that the collateral securing any particular loan will protect us from suffering a partial or complete loss if the loan becomes non-performing and we move to foreclose on the collateral. The collateral securing our loans is subject to inherent risks that may limit our ability to recover the principal of a non-performing loan. Listed below are some of the risks that may affect the value of different types of collateral in which we typically take a security interest. Inventory. In those cases where we have taken a security interest in the inventory of the client, the inventory may not be adequate to fully secure our loan if, among other things, any of the following occur: • our valuation of the inventory at the time we made the loan was not accurate; • there is a reduction in the demand for the inventory or the inventory becomes obsolete; • the value of the inventory, including, for example, inventory in the retail industry, decreases due to seasonal fluctuations; • the inventory is made up of several component parts and the value of those parts falls below expected levels; or • the client misrepresents, or does not keep adequate records of, important information concerning the inventory such as the quantity or quality of inventory on hand. Accounts Receivable. Factors that could reduce the value of accounts receivable securing our loans include, among other things: • problems with the client’s underlying product or services which result in greater than anticipated returns or disputed accounts; • unrecorded liabilities such as rebates, warranties or offsets; • the disruption or bankruptcy of key customers who are responsible for material amounts of the accounts receivable; or 28 • the client misrepresents, or does not keep adequate records of, important information concerning the amounts and aging of its accounts receivable. Equipment. The equipment of a client securing our loan could lose value as a result of, among other things: • changes in market or industry conditions; • the failure of the client to adequately maintain or repair the equipment; or • changes in technology or advances in new equipment that render the client’s equipment obsolete or of limited value. Real Estate. The real estate of a client securing our loan could lose value as a result of, among other things: • changes in general or local market conditions; • changes in the occupancy or rental rates of the property or, for a property that requires new leasing activity, a failure to lease the property in accordance with the projected leasing schedule; • limited availability of mortgage funds or fluctuations in interest rates which may render the sale and refinancing of a property difficult; • development projects that experience cost overruns or otherwise fail to perform as projected; • unanticipated increases in real estate taxes and other operating expenses; • challenges to the client’s claim of title to the real property; • environmental considerations; • zoning laws; • other governmental rules and policies; • uninsured losses including possible acts of terrorism; or • a decline in the operational performance at a facility on the real property such as a hotel, nursing home, hospital or other facility. Any one or more of the preceding factors could materially impair our ability to recover principal in a foreclosure on the related loan. Our cash flow loans are not fully covered by the value of tangible assets or collateral of the client and, consequently, if any of these loans becomes non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the loan. Cash flow lending involves lending money to a client based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a client rather than on the value of its tangible assets. These loans tend to be among the largest and riskiest in our portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, our portfolio included 286 cash flow loans under which we had advanced an aggregate of $1.9 billion, or 31%, of the aggregate outstanding loan balance of our portfolio. While in the case of our senior cash flow loans we generally take a lien on substantially all of the client’s assets, the value of those assets is typically substantially less than the amount of money we advance to a client under a cash flow loan. Thus, if a cash flow loan became non-performing, our primary recourse to recover some or all of the principal of our loan would be to force the sale of the entire company as a going concern. If we were a subordinate lender rather than the senior lender in a cash flow loan, our ability to take such action would be further constrained by our agreement with the senior lender. The risks inherent in cash flow lending include, among other things, the following: • reduced use of or demand for the client’s products or services and, thus, reduced cash flow of the client to service the loan as well as reduced value of the client as a going concern; 29 • lack of support from the client’s equity sponsor; • poor accounting systems of the client which adversely affect our ability to accurately predict the client’s cash flows; • economic downturns, political events and changes, regulatory changes (including changes in or enforcement of environmental and other laws and regulations), litigation or acts of terrorism that affect the client’s business, financial condition and prospects; and • poor management performance. Additionally, many of our clients use the proceeds of our cash flow loans to make acquisitions. Poorly executed or poorly conceived acquisitions can tax management, systems and the operations of the existing business, causing a decline in both the client’s cash flow as well as the value of its business as a going concern. In addition, many acquisitions involve new management teams taking over control of a business. These new management teams may fail to execute at the same level as the former management team, which could reduce the cash flow of the client to service the loan as well as reduce the value of the client as a going concern. We are subject to federal, state and local laws in connection with our consumer mortgage lending activities. We engage in consumer mortgage lending activities which involve the collection of numerous accounts as well as compliance with various federal, state and local laws that regulate consumer lending. Some of these laws require licensing. The various laws that regulate consumer lending could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effect of these changes on our business and profitability. Furthermore, compliance with these laws may subject us from time to time to various types of claims, legal actions, including class action lawsuits, investigations, subpoenas and inquiries in the course of our consumer mortgage lending business that could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Errors by or dishonesty of our employees could result in loan losses. We rely heavily on the performance and integrity of our employees in making our initial credit decision with respect to our loans and in servicing our loans after they have closed. Because there is generally little or no publicly available information about our clients, we cannot independently confirm or verify the information our employees provide us for use in making our credit and funding decisions. Errors by our employees in assembling, analyzing or recording information concerning our clients could cause us to originate loans or fund subsequent advances that we would not otherwise originate or fund. This could result in losses. Losses could also arise if any of our employees were dishonest. A dishonest employee could collude with our clients to misrepresent the creditworthiness of a prospective client or to provide inaccurate reports regarding the client’s compliance with the covenants in its loan agreement. If, based on an employee’s dishonesty, we made a loan to a client that was not creditworthy or failed to exercise our rights under a loan agreement against a client that was not in compliance with covenants in the agreement, we could lose some or all of the principal of the loan. We have financed in the past, and may finance in the future, the purchase by third parties of non-performing loans or problem loans held by us. These efforts may not eliminate our risk of loss or impairment with respect to these loans. We may seek to sell non-performing loans or the underlying collateral, at par or at a discount, to third parties to reduce our risk of loss. We consider non-performing loans to be either problem loans that we are actively seeking to out-place or loans that are in workout status. We may provide debt financing to the third parties to enable them to purchase these loans or collateral. The non-performing loan or the sold collateral may serve as the collateral for our loan to the purchaser. In these instances we continue to bear the risk of loss associated with the collateral supporting our original non-performing loan. The loan to the purchaser, however, is reflected in our portfolio as a new loan. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we consummated two transactions in which we financed the purchase of a non-performing or underperforming loan from us by a 30 third party. As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate outstanding principal balance of this type of financing that we provided to third parties totaled $33.9 million. Our loans could be subject to equitable subordination by a court and thereby increase our risk of loss with respect to such loans. Courts have, in some cases, applied the doctrine of equitable subordination to subordinate the claim of a lending institution against a borrower to claims of other creditors of the borrower, when the lending institution is found to have engaged in unfair, inequitable or fraudulent conduct. The courts have also applied the doctrine of equitable subordination when a lending institution or its affiliates are found to have exerted inappropriate control over a client, including control resulting from the ownership of equity interests in a client. In connection with the origination of loans representing approximately 18% of the aggregate outstanding loan balance of our portfolio as of December 31, 2005, we have made direct equity investments or received warrants. Payments on one or more of our loans, particularly a loan to a client in which we also hold an equity interest, may be subject to claims of equitable subordination. If, when challenged, these factors were deemed to give us the ability to control or otherwise exercise influence over the business and affairs of one or more of our clients, this control or influence could constitute grounds for equitable subordination. This means that a court may treat one or more of our loans as if it were common equity in the client. In that case, if the client were to liquidate, we would be entitled to repayment of our loan on an equal basis with other holders of the client’s common equity only after all of the client’s obligations relating to its debt and preferred securities had been satisfied. One or more successful claims of equitable subordination against us could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. We may incur lender liability as a result of our lending activities. In recent years, a number of judicial decisions have upheld the right of borrowers to sue lending institutions on the basis of various evolving legal theories, collectively termed “lender liability.” Generally, lender liability is founded on the premise that a lender has either violated a duty, whether implied or contractual, of good faith and fair dealing owed to the borrower or has assumed a degree of control over the borrower resulting in the creation of a fiduciary duty owed to the borrower or its other creditors or shareholders. We may be subject to allegations of lender liability. We cannot assure you that these claims will not arise or that we will not be subject to significant liability if a claim of this type did arise. We are exposed to environmental and other liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In January 2006, we completed our acquisition of a portfolio of skilled nursing facilities, each of which was subject to triple net leases, from one of our clients. As a REIT, we may engage in similar acquisitions in the future. In such a transaction, we take title to real estate, and, as a result, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In such a circumstance, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, and investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases, at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Owning title to real estate also can subject us to other liabilities for injury to persons on the property or property damage. To the extent that any such liabilities are not adequately covered by insurance, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have engaged in the past and may engage in the future in lending transactions with affiliates of our directors. The terms of these transactions may not be in our shareholders’ best interests. As of December 31, 2005, we had 23 loans representing $211.1 million in committed funds to companies controlled by affiliates of our directors. We may make additional loans to affiliates of our directors in the 31 future. Our conflict of interest policies, which require these transactions to be approved by the disinterested members of our board and be on substantially the same terms as loans to unrelated clients, may not be successful in eliminating the influence of conflicts. As a result, these transactions may divert our resources and benefit our directors and their affiliates to the detriment of our shareholders. We are not the agent for some of our loans and, consequently, have little or no control over how those loans are administered or controlled. In some of our loans we are neither the agent of the lending group that receives payments under the loan nor the agent of the lending group that controls the collateral for purposes of administering the loan. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 3% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio comprised loans in which we are neither the paying nor the collateral agent. When we are not the agent for a loan, we may not receive the same financial or operational information as we receive for loans for which we are the agent and, in many instances, the information on which we must rely is provided to us by the agent rather than directly by the client. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to track or rate these loans than it is for the loans for which we are the agent. Additionally, we may be prohibited or otherwise restricted from taking actions to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan without the agreement of other lenders holding a specified minimum aggregate percentage, generally a majority or two-thirds of the outstanding principal balance. It is possible that an agent for one of these loans may not manage the loan to our standards or may choose not to take the same actions to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan that we would take if we were agent for the loan. We are sometimes the agent for loans in which a syndicate of lenders participate and, in the event of a loss on any such loan, we could have liability to other members of the syndicate. Sometimes we are the agent representing a syndicate of multiple lenders that has made a loan. In that capacity, we may act on behalf of our co-lenders in receiving all payments under the loan and/or controlling the collateral for purposes of administering the loan. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 97% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio comprised loans in which we were either the paying or the collateral agent or both for a group of third-party lenders. When we are agent for a loan, we often receive financial and/or operational information directly from the borrower and are responsible for providing some or all of this information to our co-lenders. We may also be responsible for taking actions on behalf of the lending group to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan. It is possible that as agent for one of these loans we may not manage the loan to the standard of one or more of our co-lenders. In addition, we may choose a different course of action than one or more of our co-lenders would take to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan if our co-lenders were in a position to manage the loan. If we make errors in our administration of these loans or if our co-lenders do not approve of our performance as agent and the lending syndicate suffered a loss on the loan, we may have liability to our co-lenders. If we violate HUD lending requirements, we could lose our ability to originate HUD mortgage loans, which could adversely affect our financial results. As a FHA Title II mortgagee, or approved mortgagee, we could lose our ability to originate, underwrite and service FHA insured loans if, among other things, we commit fraud, violate anti-kickback laws, violate identity of interest rules, engage in a continued pattern of poor underwriting, or the FHA loans we originate show a high frequency of loan defaults. Our inability to engage in our HUD business would lead to a decrease in our net income. Some of our borrowers require licenses, permits and other governmental authorizations to operate their businesses, which licenses, permits or authorizations may be revoked or modified by federal, state and local governmental authorities. Any revocation or modification could have a material adverse effect on the business of a borrower and, consequently, the value of our loan to that borrower. In addition to our loans to borrowers in the healthcare industry subject to Medicare and Medicaid regulation discussed above, other borrowers in specified industries require permits and/or licenses from 32 various governmental authorities to operate their businesses. These governmental authorities may revoke or modify such licenses or permits if a borrower is found in violation of any regulation to which it is subject. In addition, these licenses may be subject to modification by order of governmental authorities or periodic renewal requirements. The loss of a permit, whether by termination, modification or failure to renew, could impair the borrower’s ability to continue to operate its business in the manner in which it was operated when we made our loan to it, which could impair the borrower’s ability to generate cash flows necessary to service our loan or repay indebtedness upon maturity, either of which outcomes would reduce our revenues, cash flow and net income. We make loans to commercial developers. These borrowers face a variety of risks relating to development, construction and renovation projects, any of which may negatively impact their results of operations and impair their ability to pay interest and principal on our loans to them. We make loans to clients for development, construction and renovation projects. The ability of these clients to make required payments to us on these loans is subject to the risks associated with these projects including the risks that: • a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources if the client determines that the development opportunity is not feasible or if it is unable to obtain all necessary zoning and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development, construction and renovation costs of a project may exceed original estimates; • the client may be unable to attract creditworthy tenants or buyers, as the case may be, to its properties; • occupancy rates at a newly completed property may not be sufficient to make the property profitable; and • projects may not be completed on schedule as a result of several factors, many of which are beyond the control of the client, such as weather, labor conditions and material shortages, resulting in increased construction costs and decreases in revenue, thereby reducing the client’s available cash. If one of these projects is not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on the client’s financial condition and results of operations, which could limit that client’s ability to repay its obligations to us. If we do not obtain the necessary state licenses and approvals, we will not be allowed to acquire, fund or originate residential mortgage loans in some states, which would adversely affect our operations. We have recently begun to acquire residential mortgages. Most states in which we do business require that we be licensed, or that we be eligible for an exemption from the licensing requirement, to conduct this business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all the necessary licenses and approvals, or be granted an exemption from the licensing requirements, that we will need to maximize the acquisition, funding or origination of residential mortgages or that we will not become liable for a failure to comply with the myriad of regulations applicable to this line of business. Our loans to foreign clients may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in loans to U.S. clients. Loans to foreign clients may expose us to risks not typically associated with loans to U.S. clients. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. To the extent that any of our loans are denominated in foreign currency, they will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital 33 appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective. Our debtor-in-possession loans may have a higher risk of default. From time-to-time we make “debtor-in-possession” loans to clients that have filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, which are used by these clients to fund on-going operations as part of the reorganization process. While our security position for these loans is generally better than for our other asset-based loans, there is a higher risk of default on these loans due to the uncertain business prospects of these clients. Furthermore, if our predictions as to the outcome or timing of a reorganization are inaccurate, the client may not be able to make payments on the loan on time or at all. Several factors may affect our ability to accurately predict the outcome or timing of the reorganization including: • the possibility of litigation between the participants in the reorganization proceeding; • the need to obtain mandatory or discretionary consents from various governmental authorities or others; and • our inability to access reliable information concerning material developments affecting the client or which cause delays in the completion of a reorganization. We may purchase distressed loans for more than we are able to recover on such loans. We may purchase loans of companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, including companies involved in bankruptcy or other reorganization and liquidation proceedings. Although such investments may result in significant returns to us, they involve a substantial degree of risk. Any one or all of the loans which we purchase may be unsuccessful or not show any return for a considerable period of time. The level of analytical sophistication, both financial and legal, necessary for making a profit on the purchase of loans to companies experiencing significant business and financial difficulties is unusually high. There is no assurance that we will correctly evaluate the value of the assets collateralizing the loans or the prospects for a successful reorganization or similar action. Unless the loans are most senior, in any reorganization or liquidation proceeding relating to a distressed company, we may lose the entire amount of our loan, may be required to accept cash or securities with a value less than our purchase price and/or may be required to accept payment over an extended period of time. Our commitments to lend additional sums to existing clients exceed our resources available to fund these commitments. As of December 31, 2005, the amount of our unfunded commitments to extend credit to our clients exceeded our unused funding sources and unrestricted cash by $933.2 million. We expect that our loan commitments will continue to exceed our available funds indefinitely. Under the terms of our loan agreements our clients generally cannot require us to fund the maximum amount of our commitments unless they are able to demonstrate, among other things, that they have sufficient collateral to secure all requested additional borrowings. There is a risk that we have miscalculated the likelihood that our clients will be eligible to receive and will, in fact, request additional borrowings in excess of our available funds. If our calculations prove incorrect, we will not have the funds to make these loan advances without obtaining additional financing. Our failure to satisfy our full contractual funding commitment to one or more of our clients could create breach of contract liability for us and damage our reputation in the marketplace, which could then have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in a highly competitive business and may not be able to take advantage of attractive lending opportunities. The commercial lending industry is highly competitive. We have competitors who also make the same types of loans to the small and medium-sized privately owned businesses that are our target clients. 34 Our competitors include a variety of: • specialty and commercial finance companies; • national and regional banks and thrifts; • private mezzanine funds; • insurance companies; • private investment funds; • investment banks; • other equity and non-equity based investment funds; and • other REITs. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. They also have greater access to capital than we do and at a lower cost than is available to us. Furthermore, we would expect to face increased price competition if lenders seek to expand within or enter our target markets. Increased competition could cause us to reduce our pricing and lend greater amounts as a percentage of a client’s eligible collateral or cash flows. Even with these changes, in an increasingly competitive market, we may not be able to attract and retain new clients and sustain the rate of growth that we have experienced to date, and our market share and future revenues may decline. If our existing clients choose to use competing sources of credit to refinance their loans, the rate at which loans are repaid may be increased, which could change the characteristics of our loan portfolio as well as cause our anticipated return on our existing loans to vary. Risks Related to Our Residential Mortgage Investment Portfolio We have limited experience investing in pools of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. In addition to the commercial mortgage loans that we originate, we have recently begun to invest in pools of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, and we currently intend to continue this investment strategy in connection with qualifying as a REIT. From our inception until mid-November 2005, we did not invest in any pools of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. Since that time, we have acquired approximately $5.9 billion of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. We expect to continue to invest in pools of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in the future, and such investments are integral to our strategy to qualify as a REIT. These investments expose us to risks that we have not previously encountered, and therefore, have limited experience managing. We cannot assure you that our investments in pools of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and our efforts to efficiently finance such purchases will be successful or that we will be able to successfully implement our strategies for such investments. Our failure to successfully execute our strategy for purchasing and financing pools of residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities could have an adverse effect on our ability to qualify as a REIT, our operating results and, ultimately, the price of our common stock. Changes in interest rates could negatively affect the value of our residential mortgage-backed securities, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In most cases, an investment in residential mortgage-backed securities will decline in value if long-term interest rates increase. Despite Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac guarantees of the residential mortgage-backed securities we own, those guarantees do not protect us from declines in market value caused by changes in interest rates. To the extent not offset by hedges, declines in market value may ultimately reduce earnings or result in losses to us, which may negatively affect cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Market values of residential mortgage-backed securities may also decline without any general increase in interest rates 35 for a number of reasons, such as increases in defaults, increases in voluntary prepayments and widening of credit spreads. A significant risk associated with our current portfolio of residential mortgage-backed securities is the risk that both long-term and short-term interest rates will increase significantly. If long-term rates were to increase significantly, the market value of these residential mortgage-backed securities would decline and the weighted average life of the investments would increase. To the extent not offset by hedges, we could realize a loss if the securities were sold. At the same time, an increase in short-term interest rates would increase the amount of interest owed on the repurchase agreements we enter into to finance the purchase of residential mortgage-backed securities. Prepayment rates could negatively affect the value of our residential mortgage-backed securities, which could result in reduced earnings or losses and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In the case of residential mortgage loans, there are seldom any restrictions on borrowers’ abilities to prepay their loans. Homeowners tend to prepay mortgage loans faster when interest rates decline. Consequently, owners of the loans have to reinvest the money received from the prepayments at the lower prevailing interest rates. Conversely, homeowners tend not to prepay mortgage loans when interest rates increase. Consequently, owners of the loans are unable to reinvest money that would have otherwise been received from prepayments at the higher prevailing interest rates. This volatility in prepayment rates may affect our ability to maintain targeted amounts of leverage on our residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio and may result in reduced earnings or losses for us and negatively affect the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac guarantees of principal and interest related to the residential mortgage-backed securities we currently own do not protect us against prepayment risks. Some of the investments in our residential mortgage investment portfolio are likely to have limited liquidity and, as a result, there will be uncertainty as to the value of these investments. We believe that some of our residential mortgage investment portfolio is likely to be in forms that have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that have limited liquidity or are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. The value of our common stock could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal. In the future, a significant portion of our residential mortgage investment portfolio may be invested in mortgage-backed securities and non-agency and non-conforming residential mortgage loans, which have a greater risk of loss than agency guaranteed securities. As it continues to grow, our residential mortgage investment portfolio may include non-agency mortgage-backed securities and/or non-conforming residential mortgage loans. Non-agency mortgage-backed securities are not guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the U.S. government, and therefore, have a higher risk of loss than do agency mortgage-backed securities. We may realize credit losses on our investments in non-agency mortgage-backed securities and/or loans. A portion of our residential mortgage loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolio may, in the future, either consist of or be backed by non-conforming residential mortgage loans. We expect that the residential mortgage loans will be non-conforming due to non-credit factors including, but not limited to, the fact that the mortgage loan amounts exceed the maximum amount for such mortgage loans to qualify as conforming mortgage loans and underwriting documentation for the mortgage loans does not meet the criteria for qualification as conforming mortgage loans. Non-conforming residential mortgage loans may have higher risk of delinquency, foreclosure and losses than conforming mortgage loans. We may realize credit losses on our 36 investments in non-conforming residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities backed by non-conforming residential mortgage loans. In the future we may invest in mortgage-backed securities backed by non-prime or sub-prime residential mortgage loans which are subject to higher delinquency, foreclosure and loss rates than prime residential mortgage loans, which could result in losses to us. Non-prime and sub-prime residential mortgage loans are made to borrowers who have poor or limited credit histories and, as a result, they do not qualify for traditional mortgage products. Because of the poor, or lack of, credit history, non-prime and sub-prime borrowers have a materially higher rate of delinquencies, foreclosure and loss rates compared to prime credit quality borrowers. There is limited history with respect to the performance of mortgage-backed securities backed by residential mortgage loans over various economic cycles. Investments in non-prime and subprime mortgage-backed securities backed by sub-prime or non-prime residential mortgage loans have higher risk than investments in mortgage-backed securities backed by prime residential mortgage loans. We may realize credit losses if we invest in mortgage-backed securities backed by sub-prime and non-prime residential mortgage loans because such mortgage-backed securities are subject to all of the risks of the underlying sub-prime and non-prime residential mortgage loans. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our cash dividends are not guaranteed and may fluctuate; we could reduce or eliminate dividends on our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, will determine the amount and frequency of dividends to be provided to our shareholders based on consideration of a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate, and the level of dividends we pay could be less than expected. If we lower our dividend or elect or are required to retain rather than distribute our income, our stock price could be adversely affected. Our business is highly dependent on members of our credit committee. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer, our President, our Chief Investment Officer, our Chief Credit Officer, our Chief Legal Officer and the Presidents of our three businesses who collectively comprise our credit committee. Members of our credit committee have been directly responsible for all of our credit approval decisions since inception. If any of them were to die, become disabled or otherwise leave our employ, we might not be able to replace him with someone of equal skill or ability. Moreover, our credit committee might not continue to function well without the continued services of the former officer. Acquisitions may adversely impact our business. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past purchased other finance companies as well as loan portfolios and related assets from other finance companies, and we expect to continue these activities in the future. We also may acquire portfolios of real property, as in our first sale/leaseback transaction of healthcare facilities in January 2006. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the incurrence of additional debt. In addition, we face risks from our prior acquisitions and may face additional risks from future acquisitions, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired company or asset portfolio; • heightened risks of credit losses as a result of acquired assets not having been originated by us in accordance with our rigorous underwriting standards; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 37 • the potentially adverse effects that acquisitions may have in terms of the composition and performance of our assets; and • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of the common stock which prevails in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services companies; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings and dividends or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; • general economic conditions and trends; • major catastrophic events; • loss of a major funding source; • interest rate volatility; • market perception of REIT stocks; • rating agency downgrade of our debt securities, including those of our term debt transactions; • sales of large blocks of our stock; or • departures of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. An investment in our shares of common stock involves tax concerns in addition to those affecting our REIT status. We may face other tax liabilities as a REIT that reduce our cash flow. We may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, to meet the REIT qualification requirements, and to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we hold some of our assets through TRSs. TRSs are corporations subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. The taxable REIT subsidiary rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to avoid application of the 100% excise tax imposed on certain non-arm’s length transactions. If, during the ten-year period beginning on the first day of the first taxable year for which we qualified as a REIT, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property that we held as of such date, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of such date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of such date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on such 38 gain at the highest regular corporate rate. Although we have no present intention to dispose of any property in a manner that would trigger such tax consequences, such dispositions could occur in the future. In addition, the IRS may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time we qualified as a REIT, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. Moreover, any increase in taxable income will result in an increase in accumulated E&P, which could require us to pay additional taxable dividends to our then-existing shareholders within 90 days of the relevant determination. State tax laws may not conform to federal tax law. Though we expect to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes in 2006, our qualification as a REIT under the laws of each individual state depends, among other things, on that state’s conformity with federal tax law. If you live in a state whose tax laws do not conform to the federal tax treatment of REITs, even if we do not do business in that state, cash distributions to you may be characterized as ordinary income rather than capital gains for purposes of computing your state taxes. You should consult with your tax advisor concerning the state tax consequences of an investment in our common shares. We and some of our shareholders could have federal income tax liability if we recognize any “excess inclusion income.” If we own a residual interest in either a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC, or taxable mortgage pool, we will be required to allocate excess inclusion income among our shareholders to the extent that such amounts exceed our REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that a shareholder is allocated a portion of our excess inclusion income, such excess inclusion income (i) would not be allowed to be offset by any net operating losses otherwise available to the shareholder, (ii) would be subject to tax as unrelated business taxable income in the hands of most types of shareholders that are otherwise generally exempt from federal income tax, and (iii) would be subject to federal withholding tax at the maximum rate (30%), generally being ineligible for a reduction or elimination of such tax under an applicable income tax treaty, in the hands of foreign shareholders. Generally, to the extent that we allocate any excess inclusion income to certain “disqualified shareholders” that are not subject to federal income taxation notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, we would be subject to tax on such excess inclusion income at the highest tax rate. Tax-exempt investors, non-U.S. shareholders and shareholders with net operating losses should carefully consider the tax consequences described above and are urged to consult their tax advisors in connection with their decision to invest in our shares of common stock. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The existing REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge mortgage-backed securities and related borrowings. Under these provisions, our annual gross income from qualifying hedges of our borrowings, together with any other income not generated from qualifying real estate assets, is limited to 25% or less of our gross income. In addition, we must limit our aggregate gross income from non-qualifying hedges, fees and certain other non-qualifying sources to 5% or less of our annual gross income. As a result, we might in the future have to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. These changes could increase the cost of our hedging activities or leave us exposed to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. If a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. As of February 28, 2006, we had 154,231,837 shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, exercisable options for 826,070 shares are held by our employees. Subject, in some cases, to Rule 144 compliance, all of these shares are eligible for sale in the public market. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress our market price. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities. 39 Some provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for, among other things: • a classified board of directors; • restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to fill a vacancy on the board of directors; • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without shareholder approval; and • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals. In addition, the ownership limits that are the subject of the charter amendment we expect to propose at our 2006 annual meeting could have an anti-takeover effect if the charter amendment is approved by our shareholders. We also are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts the ability of any shareholder that at any time holds more than 15% of our voting shares to acquire us without the approval of shareholders holding at least 662/3% of the shares held by all other shareholders that are eligible to vote on the matter. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions than you desire. Insiders continue to have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors and executive officers and entities affiliated with them owned approximately 45% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2005. As a result, these shareholders, if acting together, would be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. 40 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 