ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our securities could decline. The U.S. economy is still in the process of recovering from an economic recession, and a slow recovery may adversely impact on our business and operations, including, without limitation, the credit quality of our loan portfolio, our liquidity and our earnings. You should know that many of the risks described may apply to more than just the subsection in which we grouped them for the purpose of this presentation. As a result, you should consider all of the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Lending Activities Our results of operation and financial condition would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses. Experience in the financial services industry indicates that a portion of our loans in all categories of our lending business will become delinquent or impaired, and some may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. Our methodology for establishing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses depends on subjective determinations and judgments about our borrowers’ ability to repay. Despite management’s efforts to estimate the specific allowance, ultimate resolutions of specific loans may result in actual losses that are greater than our allowance. Deterioration in general economic conditions and unforeseen risks affecting customers may have an adverse effect on our borrowers’ capacity to repay their obligations, whether our risk ratings or valuation analyses reflect those changing conditions. Changes in economic and market conditions may increase the risk that the allowance would become inadequate if borrowers experience economic and other conditions adverse to their businesses. Maintaining the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses may require that we make significant and unanticipated increases in our provisions for loan losses, which would materially affect our results of operations and capital adequacy. Recognizing that many of our loans individually represent a significant percentage of our total allowance for loan losses, adverse collection experience in a relatively small number of loans could require an increase in our allowance. Federal and State regulators, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review a portion of our loan portfolio. The regulatory agencies may require changes to credit ratings or grades on loans, which could lead to an increase in the allowance for loan losses, increased provisions for loan losses and as appropriate, recognition of further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Increases in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not recover all amounts that are contractually owed to us by our borrowers. We expect to experience charge-offs and delinquencies on our loans in the future. In addition, like other commercial lenders, we have experienced missed and late payments, failures by clients to comply with operational and financial covenants in their loan agreements and client performance below that which we expected when we originated the loan. Most of our loans bear interest at variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, interest obligations of our clients may also increase. Some of our clients may not be able to make the increased interest payments, resulting in defaults on their loans. If we experience material losses on our portfolio, such losses would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income, results of operation and financial condition, to the extent the losses exceed our allowance for loan losses. We may be unable to act in a timely fashion so as to prevent a loss of our loan to a client and we may make errors in evaluating information reported by our clients. As a result, we may suffer losses on loans or may make advances that we would not have made if we had properly evaluated the information. Our clients may experience operational or financial problems that, if not timely addressed, could result in a substantial impairment or loss of the value of our loan to the client. We may fail to identify problems because our 27 client did not report them in a timely manner or, even if the client did report the problem, we may fail to address it quickly enough or at all. Even if clients provide us with full and accurate disclosure of all material information concerning their businesses, we may misinterpret or incorrectly analyze this information. Mistakes may cause us to make loans that we otherwise would not have made or, to fund advances that we otherwise would not have funded, or result in losses on one or more of our loans. As a result, we could suffer loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income and results of operations and financial condition, to the extent the losses exceed our allowance for loan losses. We make loans to privately owned small and medium-sized companies that present a greater risk of loss than loans to larger companies. Our portfolio consists primarily of commercial loans to small and medium-sized, privately owned businesses. Compared to larger, publicly owned firms, these companies generally have limited access to capital and higher funding costs, may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. These financial challenges may make it difficult for our clients to make scheduled payments of interest or principal on our loans. Accordingly, loans made to these types of clients entail higher risks than loans made to companies that are able to access a broader array of credit sources. In addition, there is generally no publicly available information about the small and medium-sized privately owned companies to which we lend. Therefore, we underwrite our loans based on detailed financial information and projections provided to us by our clients and we must rely on our clients and the due diligence efforts of our employees to obtain the information relevant to making our credit decisions. We rely upon the management of these companies to provide full and accurate disclosure of material information concerning their business, financial condition and prospects. We may not have access to all of the material information about a particular client’s business, financial condition and prospects, or a client’s accounting records may be poorly maintained or organized. The client’s business, financial condition and prospects may also change rapidly in the current economic environment. In such instances, we may not make a fully informed credit decision which may lead, ultimately, to a failure or inability to recover our loan in its entirety. Some of our clients require licenses, permits and other governmental authorizations to operate their businesses, which may be revoked or modified by applicable governmental authorities. Any revocation or modification could have a material adverse effect on the business of a client and, consequently, the value of our loan to that client. In addition to clients in the healthcare industry subject to Medicare and Medicaid regulation, clients in other industries require permits and licenses from various governmental authorities to operate their businesses. These governmental authorities may revoke or modify these licenses or permits if a client is found to be in violation of any regulation to which it is subject. In addition, these licenses may be subject to modification by order of governmental authorities or periodic renewal requirements or changes as a result of changes in the law. The loss of a permit or license, whether by termination, modification or failure to renew, could impair the client’s ability to operate its business, which could impair the client’s ability to generate cash flows necessary to service our loan or repay indebtedness upon maturity, either of which outcomes would reduce our revenues, cash flow and net income. See the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1, Business, above for additional discussion of specific regulatory and governmental oversight applicable to many of our healthcare clients. Our concentration of loans to a limited number of clients within a particular industry or region could impair our revenues if the industry or region were to experience economic difficulties or changes in the regulatory environment. In our normal course of business, we engage in lending activities with clients primarily throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2010, the single largest industry concentration was healthcare and social assistance, which made up approximately 22% of our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, taken in the aggregate, non-healthcare real estate loans made up approximately 24% of our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, the two largest geographical concentrations were Florida and California, which each making up approximately 10% of our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, $931.9 million, or 15%, of our portfolio consisted of 28 loans to four clients with aggregate loan balances that are individually greater than $100.0 million. Of this amount, loans to one real estate client totaling $121.1 million were on non-accrual. If any particular industry or geographic region were to experience economic difficulties, the overall timing and amount of collections on our loans to clients operating in those industries or geographic regions may differ from what we expected and it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Because of the nature of our loans and the manner in which we disclose client and loan concentrations, it may be difficult to evaluate our risk exposure to any particular client or group of related clients We have several clients that are related to each other through common ownership or management. In situations where clients are related through common ownership, to the extent the common owner suffers financial distress, the common owner may be unable to continue to support our clients, which could, in turn, lead to financial difficulties for those clients. Further, some of our clients are managed by the same entity and, to the extent that management entity suffers financial distress or is otherwise unable to continue to manage the operations of the related clients, those clients could, in turn, face financial difficulties. In both of these cases, our clients could have difficulty servicing their debt to us, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our balloon loans and bullet loans may involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 88% of the outstanding balance of our commercial loans comprised either balloon loans or bullet loans. A balloon loan is a term loan with a series of scheduled payment installments calculated to amortize the principal balance of the loan so that, upon maturity of the loan, more than 25%, but less than 100%, of the loan balance remains unpaid and must be satisfied. A bullet loan is a loan with no scheduled payments of principal before the maturity date of the loan. Balloon loans and bullet loans involve a greater degree of risk than other types of loans because they generally require the borrower to make a large, final payment upon the maturity of the loan. The ability of a client to make this final payment upon the maturity of the loan typically depends upon its ability to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the loan prior to maturity, to refinance the loan or to sell the related collateral securing the loan, if any. The ability of a client to accomplish any of these goals will be affected by many factors, including the availability of financing at acceptable rates to the client, the financial condition of the client, the marketability of the related collateral, the operating history of the related business, tax laws and the prevailing general economic conditions. Consequently, a client may not have the ability to repay the loan at maturity, and we could lose some or all of the principal of our loan. We are limited in pursuing certain of our rights and remedies under our Term B, second lien and mezzanine loans, which may increase our risk of loss on these loans. Term B loans generally are senior secured loans that are equal as to collateral and junior as to right of payment to clients’ other senior debt. Second lien loans generally are junior as to both collateral and right of payment to clients’ senior debt. Mezzanine loans may not have the benefit of any lien against clients’ collateral and generally are junior to any lienholder both as to collateral (if any) and payment. Collectively, Term B, second lien and mezzanine loans comprised 16% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our commercial loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010. As a result of the subordinate nature of these loans, we may be limited in our ability to enforce our rights to collect principal and interest on these loans or to recover any of the loan balance through our right to foreclose upon collateral. For example, we typically are not contractually entitled to receive payments of principal on a subordinated loan until the senior loan is paid in full, and may only receive interest payments on these loans if the client is not in default under its senior loan. In many instances, we are also prohibited from foreclosing on these loans until the senior loan is paid in full. Moreover, any amounts that we might realize as a result of our collection efforts or in connection with a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding under these loans must generally be turned over to the senior lender until the senior lender has realized the full value of its own claims. These restrictions may materially and adversely affect our ability to recover the principal of any non-performing Term B, second lien or mezzanine loans. 29 The collateral securing a loan may not be sufficient to protect us from a partial or complete loss if we have not properly obtained or perfected a lien on such collateral or if the loan becomes non-performing, and we are required to foreclose. While most of our loans are secured by a lien on specified collateral of the client, there is no assurance that we have obtained or properly perfected our liens, or that the value of the collateral securing any particular loan will protect us from suffering a partial or complete loss if the loan becomes non-performing and we move to foreclose on the collateral. In such event, we could suffer loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, net income, financial condition and results of operations. Our leveraged loans are not fully covered by the value of assets or collateral of the client and, consequently, if any of these loans becomes non-performing, we could suffer a loss of some or all of our value in the loan. Leveraged lending involves lending money to a client based primarily on the expected cash flow, profitability and enterprise value of a client rather than on the value of its assets. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 33% of the loans in our portfolio were leveraged loans under which we had advanced 38% of the aggregate outstanding loan balance of our portfolio. The value of the assets which we hold as collateral for these loans is typically substantially less than the amount of money we advance to a client under these loans. When a leveraged loan becomes non-performing, our primary recourse to recover some or all of the principal of our loan is to force the sale of the entire company as a going concern or restructure the company in a way we believe would enable it to generate sufficient cash flow over time to repay our loan. Neither of these alternatives may be an available or viable option or generate enough proceeds to repay the loan. Additionally, given recent and current economic conditions, many of our leveraged loan clients have and may continue to suffer decreases in revenues and net income, making them more likely to underperform and default on our loans and making it less likely that we could obtain sufficient proceeds from a restructuring or sale of the company. If we are a subordinate lender rather than the senior lender in a leveraged loan, our ability to take remedial action is constrained by our agreement with the senior lender and our financial condition may suffer. We are not the agent for a portion of our loans and, consequently, have little or no control over how those loans are administered or controlled. We are neither the agent of the lending group that receives payments under, nor the agent of the lending group that controls the collateral for purposes of administering, loans comprising approximately 28% of the aggregate outstanding balance of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010. We may not receive the same financial or operational information as we receive for loans for which we are the agent. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to track or rate these loans than it is for the loans for which we are the agent. Additionally, we may be prohibited or otherwise restricted from taking actions to enforce the loan or to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan or otherwise exercise remedies without the agreement of other lenders holding a specified minimum aggregate percentage, generally a majority or two-thirds of the outstanding principal balance. It is possible that an agent for one of these loans may not manage the loan to our standards or may choose not to take the same actions to enforce the loan, to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan or to exercise remedies that we would or would not take if we were agent for the loan. We also could experience losses in the event of the bankruptcy of the agent. We are the agent for loans in which syndicates of lenders participate and, in the event of a loss on any such loan, we could have liability to other members of the syndicate related to our management and servicing of the loan. As of December 31, 2010, we were either the paying, administrative or the collateral agent or all for a group of third-party lenders for loans with outstanding commitments of $2.1 billion. When we are the agent representing a syndicate of lenders for a loan in administering the loan, receiving all payments under the loan and/or controlling the collateral for purposes of administering the loan, we often receive financial and/or operational information directly from the borrower and are responsible for providing some or all of this information to our co-lenders. We may also be responsible for taking actions on behalf of the lending group to enforce the loan, to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan or to exercise remedies. It is possible that as agent for one of these loans we may not 30 manage the loan to the applicable standard. In addition, we may choose a different course of action than one or more of our co-lenders would take to enforce the loan, to foreclose upon the collateral securing the loan or to exercise remedies if our co-lenders were in a position to manage the loan. If we do not administer these loans in accordance with our obligations and the applicable legal standards and the lending syndicate suffers a loss on the loan, we may have liability to our co-lenders. If we do not obtain or maintain the necessary licenses and approvals, we will not be allowed to acquire, fund or originate small business loans or residential mortgage loans or other loans in some states, which could adversely affect our operations. We engage in lending activities which involve the collection of numerous accounts, as well as compliance with various federal, state and local laws that regulate consumer lending. Many states in which we do business require that we be licensed, or that we be eligible for an exemption from the licensing requirement, to conduct our business. We also engage in small business lending which is regulated by the Small Business Administration. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all the necessary licenses and approvals, or be granted an exemption from the licensing requirements, that we will need to maximize the acquisition, funding or origination of residential mortgages, small business, or other loans or that we will not become liable for a failure to comply with the myriad of regulations applicable to our lines of business. We are in a competitive business and may not be able to take advantage of attractive opportunities. Our markets are competitive and characterized by varying competitive factors. We compete with a large number of companies, including: • commercial banks and thrifts; • specialty and commercial finance companies; • private investment funds; • insurance companies; and • investment banks. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and market positions than we do. They also have greater access to capital than we do and at a lower cost than is available to us. Furthermore, we would expect to face increased price competition on deposits and if finance companies, banks or other competitors seek to expand within or enter our target markets. Increased competition could cause us to reduce our pricing and lend greater amounts as a percentage of a client’s eligible collateral or cash flows. Even with these changes, in an increasingly competitive market, we may not be able to attract and retain depositors or clients or maintain or grow our business and our market share and future revenues may decline. If our existing clients choose to use competing sources of credit to refinance their loans, the rate at which loans are repaid may be increased, which could change the characteristics of our loan portfolio as well as cause our anticipated return on our existing loans to vary. Risks Impacting Funding our Operations Our ability to operate our business depends on our ability to maintain our external financing and raise sufficient deposits. CapitalSource Bank’s ability to maintain or raise sufficient deposits may be limited by several factors, including: • competition from a variety of competitors, many of which offer a greater selection of products and services and have greater financial resources; 31 • as a California state-chartered industrial bank, CapitalSource Bank is permitted to offer only savings, money market and time deposit products, which limitations may adversely impact its ability to compete effectively; and • depositors’ negative views of the Company could cause depositors to withdraw their deposits or seek higher rates. While we expect to maintain and continue to raise deposits at a reasonable rate of interest, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully. In addition, given the short average maturity of CapitalSource Bank’s deposits to the maturity of its loans, the inability of CapitalSource Bank to raise or maintain deposits could compromise our ability to operate our business, impair our liquidity and threaten our solvency. Aside from deposit funding, CapitalSource Bank may obtain back-up liquidity from the Parent Company pursuant to the $150.0 million revolving credit facility it has established with the Parent Company, and other facilities it has established with the FHLB SF, and the FRB. The availability of these sources of funds may be limited or threatened in the event of a severe economic crisis. If the liquidity or financial performance of the Parent Company weakens, CapitalSource Bank may not be able to draw on the $150.0 million revolving credit facility. The access to borrowing from FHLB SF may be materially impacted should Congress alter or dissolve the Federal Home Loan Bank system. Our access to the FRB primary credit program may be materially impacted should the FRB modify its credit program and limit CapitalSource Bank’s access to the program. As a result, if the ability of CapitalSource Bank to attract and retain suitable levels of deposits weakens, this could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. CapitalSource Bank is prohibited from paying dividends without the consent of our regulators, and we do not anticipate that dividends from CapitalSource Bank will provide liquidity to find the operations of the Parent Company for the foreseeable future. The Parent Company is dependent on loan collections and the proceeds of loan sales to fund its operations. A shortfall in loan proceeds may impair our ability to fund our operations or to repay our existing debt. Mandatory redemption provisions under our indebtedness may limit our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity. The terms of our outstanding convertible debentures require us to make offers to repurchase them in 2011 and 2012. As of December 31, 2010 the principal amounts of convertible debentures that we may be required to purchase in those years are $280.5 million in July 2011 and $250.0 million in July 2012. If the conversion prices of all of these debentures remain significantly out of the money, we would expect that all of the holders would elect to tender their debentures to us in response to these offers, requiring us to pay the respective principal amounts in cash at the conclusion of each offer. If we are unable to sell sufficient assets, raise new capital or restructure these payment obligations, we may not have sufficient liquidity to make these required prepayments by these dates. Consequently, we could default on these payment obligations, which would trigger cross-defaults under our other debt. In such circumstances, our business, liquidity and operations would be materially adversely affected, and we may not be able to continue operating. We must comply with various covenants and obligations under our indebtedness and our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, manage our portfolio or pursue certain opportunities. The Parent Company is subject to financial and non-financial covenants under our indebtedness, including, without limitation, with respect to restricted payments, interest coverage, minimum tangible net worth, leverage, maximum delinquent and charged-off loans, servicing standards, and limitations on incurring or guaranteeing indebtedness, refinancing existing indebtedness, repaying subordinated indebtedness, making investments, dividends, distributions, redemptions or repurchases of our capital stock, entering into transactions with affiliates selling assets, creating liens and engaging in a merger, sale or consolidation. If we were to default under our indebtedness by violating these covenants or otherwise, our lenders’ remedies would include the ability to, among other things, transfer servicing to another servicer, foreclose on collateral, accelerate payment of all amounts 32 payable under such indebtedness and/or terminate their commitments under such indebtedness. A default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, liquidity position and our ability to continue to operate our business. In addition, upon the occurrence of specified servicer defaults our lenders under our credit facility and the holders of the notes issued in our term debt securitizations may elect to terminate us as servicer of the loans under the applicable facility or term debt securitizations and appoint a successor servicer or replace us as cash manager for our secured facilities and term debt securitizations. If we were terminated as servicer, we would no longer receive our servicing fee. In addition, because there can be no assurance that any successor servicer would be able to service the loans according to our standards, the performance of our loans could be materially adversely affected and our income generated from those loans significantly reduced. Substantially all of the assets of the Parent Company are pledged or otherwise encumbered by liens we have granted in favor of our lenders. The restrictive covenants in our indebtedness may, among other things, impair our ability and reduce our flexibility to operate our business, restrict our ability to optimally restructure our existing debt, plan for or react to changes in our business, the economy and/or markets, or limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest, thereby negatively impacting our financial condition or results of operations. Our failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. Our commitments to lend additional amounts to existing clients exceed our resources available to fund these commitments. As of December 31, 2010, we had $1.9 billion of unfunded commitments to extend credit, of which $958.7 million were commitments of CapitalSource Bank and $977.7 million were commitments of the Parent Company. Due to their nature, we cannot know with certainty the aggregate amounts we will be required to fund under these unfunded commitments. In many cases, our obligation to fund unfunded commitments is subject to our clients’ ability to provide collateral to secure the requested additional fundings, the collateral’s satisfaction of eligibility requirements, our clients’ ability to meet specified preconditions to borrowing, including compliance with the loan agreements, and/or our discretion pursuant to the terms of the loan agreements. In other cases, however, there are no such prerequisites to future fundings by us, and our clients may draw on these unfunded commitments at any time. Clients may seek to draw on our unfunded commitments to improve their cash positions. We expect that these unfunded commitments will continue to exceed the Parent Company’s available funds. Our failure to satisfy our full contractual funding commitment to one or more of our clients could create breach of contract and lender liability for us and irreparably damage our reputation in the marketplace, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate our business. Fluctuating interest rates could adversely affect our profit margins. We borrow money from our lenders at variable interest rates and raise short-term deposits at prevailing rates in the relevant markets. We generally lend money at variable rates based on either prime or LIBOR indices. Our operating results and cash flow depend on the difference between the interest rates at which we borrow funds and raise deposits and the interest rates at which we lend these funds. Because many of our loans are currently below their contractual interest rate floors, upward movements in interest rates will not immediately result in additional interest income, although these movements would increase our cost of funds. Therefore, any upward movement in rates may result in a reduction of our net interest income. For additional information about interest rate risk, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk Management. Interest on some of our borrowings is based in part on the rates and maturities at which vehicles sponsored by our lenders issue asset backed commercial paper. Changes in market interest rates or the relationship between market interest rates and asset backed commercial paper rates could increase the effective cost at which we borrow funds under some of our indebtedness. 33 In addition, changes in market interest rates, or in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or between different interest rate indices, could affect the interest rates charged on interest earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest bearing liabilities, which could result in an increase in interest expense relative to our interest income. Hedging instruments involve inherent risks and costs and may adversely affect our earnings. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements and other contracts for interest rate risk management purposes. Our hedging activities vary in scope based on a number of factors, including the level of interest rates, the type of portfolio investments held, and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. Because we do not employ hedge accounting, our hedging activity may materially adversely affect our earnings. Therefore, while we pursue such transactions to reduce our interest rate risks, it is possible that changes in interest rates may result in losses that we would not otherwise have incurred if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. For additional information, see Note 21, Derivative Instruments, in our accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and, thus, increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements associated with derivative instruments we use may depend on compliance with applicable statutory, commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. In the event of default by a counterparty to hedging arrangements, we may lose unrealized gains associated with such contracts and may be required to execute replacement contract(s) on market terms which may be less favorable to us. Although generally we seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to future contingent liabilities. Part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that require us to fund cash payments in certain circumstances. Our ability to fund these contingent liabilities will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to funding sources at the time, and the need to fund these contingent liabilities could materially adversely impact our financial condition. For additional information, see Note 21, Derivative Instruments, in our accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010. Risks Related to Our Operations We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, which limit our flexibility and could result in adverse actions by regulatory agencies against us. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision that govern, limit or otherwise affect almost all aspects of our operations. Such banking regulation and supervision is intended primarily to protect 34 customers, depositors and the FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund — not our shareholders. These laws and regulations, among other matters, establish minimum capital requirements, limit the business activities we can conduct, prohibit various business practices, limit the dividends or distributions CapitalSource Bank can pay, establish reporting requirements, require approvals or consent for many types of transactions or business changes, and establish standards for financial and managerial safety and soundness. Our state and federal regulators periodically conduct examinations of our business, including for compliance with laws and regulations. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, policies or the regulatory orders pursuant to which we operate, even if unintentional or inadvertent, could result in adverse actions by regulatory agencies against us. Such actions could result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums, additional limitations on our activities, termination of deposit insurance, civil monetary penalties and fines, which in each case could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operation or reputation. See the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1, Business, above, Note 18, Bank Regulatory Capital, in our accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Item 7, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Changes in laws and regulations, including the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, may have a material effect on our operations. We are currently facing increased regulation and supervision of our industry as a result of the financial crisis in the banking and financial markets. Additional regulation and supervision may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Federal and state legislatures and regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to banking laws or regulations, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could materially affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit or restrict our ability to use capital for business purposes, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. In addition, increased regulatory requirements, whether due to the adoption of new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws and regulations, or more expansive or aggressive interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, imposes a number of significant regulatory and compliance changes in the banking and financial services industry. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act must be implemented by regulations to be adopted by various government agencies. These regulations, and other changes in the regulatory regime, may include additional requirements, conditions, and limitations that may impact us. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that may have a material effect on our business are noted below. • The Dodd-Frank Act requires a study regarding the continued exemption of industrial banks from the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, or BHC Act. As a state-chartered industrial bank, CapitalSource Bank is currently exempt from the definition of “bank” under the BHC Act. If this exemption is eliminated following this study, then, in order to continue to own CapitalSource Bank, the Parent Company would be required to register as a bank holding company, or BHC. If we were unsuccessful in registering as a BHC or another exception does not become available to us, our continued ownership of CapitalSource Bank would not be permissible. We are in discussions with regulators regarding our applications to become a BHC, but there is no assurance that any of the regulatory authorities will approve our applications. • The Dodd-Frank Act directs the federal banking agencies to issue regulations requiring that the parent company of any insured depository institution serve as a “source of financial strength” to its subsidiary depository institution. The source of strength requirement had historically applied only to bank holding companies and their subsidiary banks. The adoption of these regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act would expand the application of this requirement to us. Under the source of strength doctrine, the Parent Company would be required to support the safety and soundness of CapitalSource Bank. The banking regulators could require the Parent Company to contribute additional capital to CapitalSource Bank or to take, or refrain from taking, other actions for the benefit of CapitalSource Bank. 35 • The Dodd-Frank Act limits the acquisition of control of an industrial bank by a non-financial firm. For a period of three years beginning on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act generally requires that the banking regulators approve any proposed change in control of an industrial bank, such as CapitalSource Bank, if the proposed acquirer is engaged in commercial activities not deemed financial. • Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in July of this year, one or more of our subsidiaries may be required to register as an investment adviser with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, or the Advisers Act, or alternatively, with one or more states under relevant state securities laws in which case such subsidiaries would become subject to comprehensive investment advisor regulation at either a federal or state level. • The Dodd-Frank Act provision commonly referred to as the “Volcker Rule,” once implemented, may place certain restrictions on the Parent Company due to our ownership of and affiliation with CapitalSource Bank, and we may need to take certain actions that we determine to be necessary or advisable to comply with the Volcker Rule. These rules and regulations, and other changes in the regulatory regime, may include additional requirements, conditions, and limitations that could increase our compliance costs and materially adversely affect our business, operations, financial results and the price of our common stock. Regulators are considering increased capital standards for banking organizations, including under the Basel III framework, which may have a material effect on our operations. We are required by regulators to satisfy minimum capital standards. On September 12, 2010, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision announced an international agreement to a heightened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the United States and around the world, known as Basel III. The Basel III changes, and other regulatory initiatives in the wake of the financial crisis, are expected to result in higher regulatory capital standards and expectations for banking organizations. However, the timing and scope of U.S. implementation of Basel III and other regulatory capital initiatives remain uncertain, and it is difficult at this time to predict how any new standards would be applied to us and CapitalSource Bank. Higher capital requirements, or changes in the manner in which regulatory capital standards are implemented, could adversely affect our financial results. We face risks in connection with our strategic undertakings and new businesses, products or services. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may engage in strategic activities, which could include acquisitions, joint ventures, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. In order to finance future strategic undertakings, we might obtain additional equity or debt financing. Such financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If obtained, equity financing could be dilutive and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities could have material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to execute strategic activities successfully will depend on a variety of factors. These factors likely will vary on the nature of the activity but may include our success in integrating the operations, services, products, personnel and systems of an acquired company into our business, operating effectively with any partner with whom we elect to do business, retaining key employees, achieving anticipated synergies, meeting expectations and otherwise realizing the undertaking’s anticipated benefits. Our ability to address these matters successfully cannot be assured. In addition, our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny. If we do not successfully execute a strategic undertaking, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were able to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment of goodwill charge to us, which should adversely affect our results of operations. 36 In addition, from time to time, we may develop and grow new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The change of control rules under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to use net operating loss carryovers and other tax attributes to reduce future tax payments or our willingness to issue equity. We have net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes that can be utilized to offset future taxable income. If we were to undergo a change in ownership of more than 50% of our capital stock over a three-year period as measured under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, certain built-in losses and other tax attributes recognized in years after the ownership change generally would be limited. The annual limit would equal the product of the applicable long term tax exempt rate and the value of the relevant taxable entity’s capital stock immediately before the ownership change. These change of ownership rules generally focus on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of a company’s outstanding stock, including certain public groups of stockholders as set forth under Section 382, and those arising from new stock issuances and other equity transactions, which may limit our willingness and ability to issue new equity. The determination of whether an ownership change occurs is complex and not entirely within our control. No assurance can be given as to whether we have undergone, or in the future will undergo, an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The requirements of the Investment Company Act impose limits on our operations that impact the way we acquire and manage our assets and operations. We conduct our operations so as not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. We believe that we are primarily engaged in the business of commercial lending, and not in the business of investing, reinvesting, and trading in securities, and therefore are not required to register under the Investment Company Act. While we do not believe we are engaged in an investment company business, we nevertheless endeavor to conduct our operations in a manner that would permit us to rely on one or more exemptions under the Investment Company Act. Our ability to rely on these exemptions may limit the types of loans and other assets we own. One of our wholly owned subsidiaries, CapitalSource Finance LLC (“Finance”), is a guarantor on certain of our indebtedness, which guarantees could be deemed to cause Finance to have outstanding securities for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Finance or other subsidiaries may guarantee future indebtedness from time to time. Even if one or more of our subsidiaries were deemed to be engaged in investment company business and the provisions of the Investment Company Act were deemed to apply on an individual basis to our wholly owned subsidiaries, we attempt to conduct our business in a manner that we believe would permit our entities to rely on exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act. If we or any subsidiary were required to register under the Investment Company Act and could not rely on an exemption or exclusion, we or such subsidiary could be characterized as an investment company. Such characterization would require us to either change the manner in which we conduct our operations, or register the relevant entity as an investment company. Any modification of our business for these purposes could have a material adverse 37 effect on us. Further, if we or a subsidiary were determined to be an unregistered investment company, we or such subsidiary: • could be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the SEC and could be found to be in default of some of our indebtedness; • may be unable to enforce contracts with third parties, and third parties could seek to rescind transactions undertaken during the period it was established that we or such subsidiary was an unregistered investment company; • may have to significantly reduce the amount of leverage in our business; • may have to restructure operations dramatically; • may have to raise substantial amounts of additional equity to come into compliance with the limitations prescribed under the Investment Company Act; and • may have to terminate agreements with our affiliates. If changes in the market value of and/or net income from certain assets of one or more of our subsidiaries would affect our ability to rely on certain exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act, we may need to make decisions with respect to these assets that we otherwise would not make absent the Investment Company Act consideration. Such decisions may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial results and the price of our common stock. Our systems may experience an interruption or breach in security which could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. We rely on the computer and telephone systems and network infrastructure that we use to conduct our business. These systems and infrastructure could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer and telephone equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our clients. In addition, we must be able to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us against physical damage, security breaches and service disruption caused by the internet or other users. Such break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and deter potential clients. While we have systems, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our systems and infrastructure, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful and that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. In addition, the failure of our clients to maintain appropriate security for their systems also may increase our risk of loss in connection with loans made to them. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of systems and infrastructure could damage our reputation, result in a loss of business and/or clients, result in losses to us or our clients, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, cause us to incur additional expenses, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. We review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. This could 38 have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our stock price, and could potentially subject us to litigation. We revoked our REIT election which could have adverse legal implications. We operated as a REIT through 2008, but revoked our REIT election as of January 1, 2009. We had agreed in contracts relating to some of our financings that we will use reasonable efforts to remain qualified as a REIT. While we believe our decision not to qualify as a REIT for 2009 was reasonable, it could nevertheless be deemed to breach certain of our agreements. If the counterparties to these financings allege breaches of those agreements, we may be subject to lengthy and costly litigation, and if we were not to prevail in such litigation, we may be required to repay certain indebtedness prior to stated maturity, which would materially impair our liquidity. We are under audit for our 2006 through 2008 taxable years and, if the Internal Revenue Service determined that we violated REIT requirements and failed to qualify as a REIT or otherwise under reported tax liabilities during those years which we operated as a REIT, it could adversely impact our results of operations. We operated as a REIT from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008. Our senior management had limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under the highly complex tax rules governing REITs and we cannot assure you that we operated our business within the REIT requirements. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs and the importance of factual determinations, the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, could contend that we violated REIT requirements in one or more of these years. We are currently under audit by the IRS for our 2006, 2007 and 2008 or otherwise underreported tax liabilities tax returns. To the extent it were to be determined that we did not comply with REIT requirements for one or more of our REIT years or otherwise under reported tax liability, we could be required to pay additional corporate federal income tax and certain state and local income taxes for the relevant years. Also, we could be required to pay taxes (which could be significant in amount) that would be due if we were to avail ourselves of certain savings provisions, if they are available, to preserve our REIT status for the relevant years, either of which could have adverse affects on our financial results and the value of our common stock. Risks Related to our Common Stock We may not pay dividends on our common stock. We expect to retain a majority of our earnings, consistent with dividend policies of other commercial depository institutions, to redeploy in our business. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, will determine the amount and frequency of dividends to our shareholders based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions prohibiting the payment of dividends after defaults. In addition, for so long as our 2014 Senior Secured Notes are outstanding, absent sufficient restricted payment capacity, we cannot make cash dividend payments that exceed $0.01 per share per quarter. As of December 31, 2010, we had $142.5 million, or $0.44 per share, of restricted payment capacity, however, we cannot assure we will have restricted payment capacity in the future, or that even if we do, we will utilize such restricted capacity to pay any dividend on our common stock. If we change our dividend policy our stock price could be adversely affected. Some provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as certain banking laws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for, among other things: • a classified board of directors; • restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to fill a vacancy on the board of directors; • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without shareholder approval; and • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals. 39 We also are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which restricts the ability of any shareholder that at any time holds more than 15% of our voting shares to acquire us without the approval of shareholders holding at least 662/3% of the shares held by all other shareholders that are eligible to vote on the matter. Federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could inhibit a business combination and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These laws and anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions than you desire. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 