D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Related to the Global Economy and the Steel Industry The downturn in the global economy during 2008 and 2009 caused a sharp reduction in worldwide demand for steel. Should the global economy or the economies of ArcelorMittal’s key selling markets fail to recover or enter a protracted period of weak growth, this would have a material adverse effect on the steel industry and ArcelorMittal. ArcelorMittal’s activities and results are substantially affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. Starting in September 2008 and lasting through much of 2009, a steep downturn in the global economy, sparked by uncertainty in credit markets and deteriorating consumer confidence, sharply reduced demand for steel products worldwide. This had, and to some extent continues to have, a pronounced negative effect on ArcelorMittal’s business and results of operations. Although the global economy showed signs of recovery by the end of 2009, should the incipient recovery falter, the outlook for steel producers will again worsen. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Economic Environment”. In particular, a renewed recession or period of below-trend growth in the United States and Europe, or slow growth in emerging economies that are substantial consumers of steel (such as China, Brazil, Russia and India, as well as emerging Asian markets, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”) regions) would have a material adverse effect on the steel industry. Continued weakness in sectors of the economy that are substantial consumers of steel products, such as the automotive industry (to which ArcelorMittal shipped approximately 9.8 million tonnes of steel in 2009 after having shipped 15.0 million tonnes in 2008) and the construction industry, or additional bankruptcies of large companies in such industries, would also hurt steel producers. Notwithstanding ArcelorMittal’s size and global presence, protracted declines in steel consumption caused by poor economic conditions in any major markets or by the deterioration of the financial condition of any key customers would have a material adverse effect on demand for, and prices of, its products and hence its results. An uneven recovery, with positive growth limited to certain regions, or excluding key markets such as the European Union and the United States, which respectively accounted for 46% and 15% of the Company’s sales in 2009, would also have an adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s results of operations and prospects. 6 Table of Contents In response to the market downturn and the fall in demand for steel products towards the end of 2008 and the first half of 2009, the Company announced and began implementing several measures, including reducing capital expenditures, cutting costs, improving productivity, cutting steel production and reducing debt. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Key Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Initiatives in Response to Changing Market Conditions” and “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity & Capital Resources”. Although these measures helped the Company to weather the crisis, and while demand, production levels and prices have started to recover in certain segments and markets, the extent, timing and duration of the recovery remains uncertain. The extent to which the rebound in the steel market can be ascribed to a recovery in “real” underlying demand, as opposed to “apparent” demand resulting from de-stocking, remains uncertain. An unsustainable recovery and persistent weak economic conditions in any of the Company’s key markets would adversely affect operational results, and could necessitate the extension or expansion of the conservative measures undertaken during the crisis, which in itself could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and growth prospects. Excess capacity and oversupply in the steel industry globally and particularly in China may hamper the steel industry’s recovery and prolong the downward cycle. In addition to economic conditions, the steel industry is affected by global production capacity and fluctuations in steel imports/exports and tariffs. The steel industry has historically suffered from structural over-capacity. The industry is currently characterized by a substantial increase in production capacity in the developing world, particularly in China, but also in India and other emerging markets. China is now the largest global steel producer by a large margin, with the balance between its domestic production and consumption being an important factor in global steel prices. Chinese steel exports, or conditions favorable to them (excess steel capacity in China and/or higher market prices for steel in markets outside of China) can have a significant impact on steel prices in other markets, including the U.S. and Europe. Over the short to medium term ArcelorMittal is exposed to the risk of steel production increases in China and other markets outstripping increases in real demand, which may weigh on price recovery. Protracted low steel prices would have a material adverse effect on the results of ArcelorMittal, as could price volatility. Steel prices are volatile, reflecting the highly cyclical nature of the global steel industry. After rising steadily during 2007 and into the third quarter of 2008, global steel prices fell sharply, as the credit crisis led to a collapse in global demand. Prices remained depressed during the first half of 2009, despite widespread production cuts. During the second half of 2009 a gradual recovery was seen in certain segments and markets. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Key Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Steel Prices”. Lower prices have had an adverse effect on steel producers in general, including ArcelorMittal, due to lower revenues, margins and writedowns of finished steel products and raw material inventories. Significant price decreases during periods of economic weakness have historically not been balanced by a commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Although prices have recovered and stabilized since the crisis to a certain degree, the timing and extent of the recovery and potential return to pre-crisis price levels remains uncertain. The initial rebound in the international steel market was due in part to a rebound in apparent demand resulting from de-stocking. However, the extent of the recovery in real demand remains uncertain. A sustained price recovery will most likely require a broad economic recovery, in order to underpin an increase in real demand for steel products by end users. In addition to macroeconomic trends, steel prices are sensitive to developments in particular industries, such as the automotive, construction, appliance, machinery, equipment and transportation, which are the main markets for ArcelorMittal’s products. A resumed downturn in steel prices would materially and adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s revenues and profitability, including because of potential further write-downs of steel products and raw materials inventories. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Key Factors Affecting Results of Operations.” Volatility in the prices of raw materials, energy and transportation, including mismatches between trends in prices for raw materials and steel, as well as limitations on or disruptions in the supply of raw materials, could adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s profitability. Steel production requires substantial amounts of raw materials and energy, including iron ore, coking coal and coke, scrap, electricity and natural gas, which are subject to significant price volatility. In 2006, 2007, and through the first half of 2008, the prices of most commodities used in the steel-making process rose sharply before collapsing in late 2008 as a result of the global economic crisis. In May 2009, the annual benchmark price of iron ore for 2009 was set at a level 28-33% below the 2008 benchmark price. Prices on the spot market have since recovered significantly, and it is likely that benchmark iron prices for 2010 and 2011 will reverse some or all of the declines experienced during the height of the economic crisis. The prices of coking coal, zinc and nickel, as well as scrap, have followed a similar trend. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Key Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Raw Materials.” The availability and prices of raw materials may be negatively affected by, among other factors; new laws or regulations; suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers; business continuity of suppliers; interruptions in production by suppliers; accidents or other similar events at suppliers’ premises or along the supply chain; wars, natural disasters and other similar events; fluctuations in exchange rates; consolidation in steel-related industries; the bargaining power of raw material suppliers and the availability and cost of transportation. Although ArcelorMittal has substantial captive sources of iron ore and coal from its own mines and is expanding output at such mines and also has new mines under development, it still obtains a significant portion of its raw materials requirements under long-term supply contracts (such as the Brazilian mining company Vale). The raw materials industry is highly concentrated and suppliers in recent years have had significant pricing power, as was the case during 2007 and the first half of 2008, when demand peaked at record levels. Further consolidation among suppliers—for example, the announced iron ore joint venture between mining companies BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto—would exacerbate this trend. Should raw materials suppliers move toward sales based on spot prices rather than long-term fixed price contracts, steel producers would face increased exposure to production cost and price volatility, which may in turn reduce their access to reliable supplies of raw materials. Any prolonged interruption in the supply of raw materials or energy, or increases in costs which ArcelorMittal cannot pass on to its customers, could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. 7 Table of Contents Energy costs, including the cost of electricity and natural gas, represent a substantial portion of the cost of goods sold by steel companies. Historically, energy prices have varied significantly, and this trend may continue due to market conditions and other factors beyond the control of steel companies. Because the production of direct reduced iron and the re-heating of steel involve the use of significant amounts of energy, steel companies are sensitive to natural gas prices and are dependent on having access to reliable supplies. Despite the fact that steel and raw material prices are historically highly correlated with both having experienced significant declines during the crisis, this correlation is not guaranteed. In addition, ArcelorMittal sources a substantial portion of its raw materials through annual fixed price contracts, thereby creating the risk of adverse differentials between its own production costs and steel price trends, as was the case during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first half of 2009, when the Company experienced a margin squeeze and recorded significant write-downs and provisions on raw material supply contracts. If raw materials and energy prices rise significantly (either as a result of supply constraints or other reasons) but prices for steel do not increase commensurately, it would have a negative effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unfair trade practices in ArcelorMittal’s home markets could negatively affect steel prices and reduce ArcelorMittal’s profitability, while trade restrictions could limit ArcelorMittal’s access to key export markets. ArcelorMittal is exposed to the effects of “dumping” and other unfair trade and pricing practices by competitors. Moreover, government subsidization of the steel industry remains widespread in certain countries, particularly those with centrally-controlled economies such as China. As a consequence of the recent global economic crisis, there is an increased risk of unfairly-traded steel exports from such countries into various markets including North America and Europe, in which ArcelorMittal produces and sells its products. Such imports could have the effect of reducing prices and demand for ArcelorMittal products. In addition, ArcelorMittal has significant exposure to the effects of trade actions and barriers due the global nature of its operations. Various countries have in the past instituted, or are currently contemplating the implementation of, trade actions and barriers, which could materially and adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s business by limiting the Company’s access to steel markets. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations”. Developments in the competitive environment in the steel industry could have an adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s competitive position and hence its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The markets in which steel companies operate are highly competitive. Competition—in the form of established producers expanding in new markets, smaller producers increasing production in anticipation of demand increases, amid an incipient recovery, or exporters selling excess capacity from markets such as China—could cause ArcelorMittal to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Competition from other materials could reduce market prices and demand for steel products and thereby reduce ArcelorMittal’s cash flow and profitability. In many applications, steel competes with other materials that may be used as substitutes, such as aluminum (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Government regulatory initiatives mandating the use of such materials in lieu of steel, whether for environmental or other reasons, as well as the development of other new substitutes for steel products, could significantly reduce market prices and demand for steel products and thereby reduce ArcelorMittal’s cash flow and profitability. ArcelorMittal is subject to strict environmental laws and regulations, including with respect to greenhouse gas emissions, that could give rise to a significant increase in costs and liabilities. ArcelorMittal is subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental protection standards regarding, among others, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination. The costs of complying with, and the imposition of liabilities pursuant to, environmental laws and regulations can be significant. Failure to comply can result in civil and or criminal penalties being imposed, the suspension of permits, requirements to curtail or suspend operations, and lawsuits by third parties. Despite ArcelorMittal’s efforts to comply with environmental laws and regulations, environmental incidents or accidents may occur that negatively affect the Company’s reputation or the operations of key facilities. Compliance with new and more stringent environmental obligations—particularly those arising from policies limiting greenhouse gas emissions—may require additional capital expenditures or modifications in operating practices, as well as additional reporting obligations. The integrated steel process involves carbon and creates carbon dioxide (CO2), which distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini-mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is primarily linked to energy use. The European Union has already established greenhouse gas regulations and many other countries, including the United States, are in the process of doing so. Such regulations, whether in the form of a national or international cap-and-trade emissions permit system, a carbon tax, or other regulatory initiative, could have a negative effect on ArcelorMittal’s production levels, income and cash flows. Such regulations could also have a negative effect on the Company’s suppliers and customers, which could result in higher costs and lower sales. 8 Table of Contents Moreover, many developing nations, including China, have not yet instituted significant greenhouse gas regulations. It is possible that any international agreement to regulate emissions (including any pact that emerges in the aftermath of the December 2009 UN Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen) may provide exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations. In such case, ArcelorMittal may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to steelmakers having more or all of their production in such countries. ArcelorMittal also incurs costs and liabilities associated with the assessment and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition to the impact on current facilities and operations, environmental remediation obligations can give rise to substantial liabilities in respect of divested assets and past activities. This may be also the case for acquisitions when liabilities for past acts or omissions are not adequately reflected in the terms and price of the acquisition. ArcelorMittal could become subject to further remediation obligations in the future, as additional contamination is discovered or cleanup standards become more stringent. Costs and liabilities associated with mining activities include those resulting from tailings and sludge disposal, effluent management, and rehabilitation of land disturbed during mining processes. ArcelorMittal could become subject to unidentified liabilities in the future, such as those relating to uncontrolled tailings breaches or other future events or to underestimated emissions of polluting substances. ArcelorMittal operations may be located in areas where communities may regard its activities as having a detrimental effect on their natural environment and conditions of life. Any actions taken by such communities in response to such concerns could compromise ArcelorMittal’s profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation or the development of new activities in the relevant region or country. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Environmental Laws and Regulations” and “Item 8A—Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” ArcelorMittal is subject to stringent health and safety laws and regulations that give rise to significant costs and liabilities. ArcelorMittal is subject to a broad range of health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws and regulations, as interpreted by relevant agencies and the courts, impose increasingly stringent health and safety protection standards. The costs of complying with, and the imposition of liabilities pursuant to, health and safety laws and regulations could be significant, and failure to comply could result in the assessment of civil and criminal penalties, the suspension of permits or operations, and lawsuits by third parties. Despite ArcelorMittal’s significant efforts to monitor and reduce accidents at its facilities (see “Item 4B—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Health and Safety Laws and Regulations”), there remains a risk that health and safety incidents may occur, which may result in costs and liabilities and negatively impact ArcelorMittal’s reputation or the operations of the affected facility. Such incidents could include explosions or gas leaks, fires or collapses in underground mining operations, vehicular accidents, other incidents involving mobile equipment, or exposure to radioactive or other potentially hazardous materials. Some of ArcelorMittal’s industrial activities involve the use, storage and transport of dangerous chemicals and toxic substances, and ArcelorMittal is therefore subject to the risk of industrial accidents which could have significant adverse consequences for the Company’s workers and facilities, as well as the environment. Such incidents could lead to production stoppages, loss of key personnel, the loss of key assets, or put at risk employees (and those of sub-contractors and suppliers) or persons living near affected sites. ArcelorMittal may continue to be exposed to increased operational costs due to the costs and lost time associated with the HIV/AIDS and malaria infection rates within our workforce in Africa and other regions. ArcelorMittal may also be affected by potential H1N1 outbreaks in any of the regions in which it operates. Under certain circumstances, authorities could require ArcelorMittal facilities to curtail or suspend operations based on health and safety concerns. For example, following accidents in 2006 and 2007 that resulted in numerous fatalities, the Kazakh government threatened to revoke the operating license of ArcelorMittal Temirtau unless additional safety measures were implemented. Since then, ArcelorMittal has cooperated with authorities to implement these measures or otherwise reach agreement on necessary remedial action. Nevertheless, the episode remains illustrative of risks presented by health and safety issues, from both a reputational and operational standpoint. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Environmental Laws and Regulations” and “Item 8A—Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal has a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could make it more difficult or expensive to refinance its maturing debt, incur new debt and/or flexibly manage its business. As of December 31, 2009, ArcelorMittal had total debt outstanding of $25 billion, consisting of $4 billion of short-term indebtedness (including payables to banks and the current portion of long-tem debt) and $21 billion of long-term indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, ArcelorMittal had $6 billion of cash and cash equivalents, including short-term investments and restricted cash, and $11 billion available to be drawn under existing credit facilities. Substantial amounts of indebtedness mature in 2010 ($4.1 billion), 2011 ($4.3 billion), 2012 ($1.5 billion), 2013 ($4.1 billion) and 2014 ($4.0 billion). See “Item 5B—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. In response to the downturn in the global steel market and difficult credit market conditions in late 2008, ArcelorMittal reduced its “net debt” (i.e., long-term debt plus short-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash) by approximately $13.7 billion at the end of 2009 from September 30, 2008. This reduction, as well as an extension of ArcelorMittal’s debt maturity profile, resulted in part from a series of debt, equity and convertible bond offerings in 2009 totaling approximately $13.1 billion. Although these transactions improved the Company’s liquidity position, debt maturity profile and gearing, its financing costs have generally risen due to the higher interest rates paid on recent financings. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financings—Debt Securities and Other Loans, Convertible Bonds and Equity Financings—2009 Capital Markets Transactions.” Although the global financial crisis eased during the second half of 2009, conditions in global capital and credit markets generally remain volatile and uncertain, particularly for companies with high leverage or in sectors that have been especially affected by the global economic downturn, including steel and other basic material producers. Conditions in global financial markets could conceivably relapse and deteriorate sharply as they did in September 2008, including in response to political or financial news such as significant credit losses at a systemically important financial institution, company or sovereign country (many of which accumulated large amounts of debt during the 2008-2009 recession as a result of decreased tax revenues and increased spending to finance economic stimulus and bailouts). ArcelorMittal could, in order to increase financial flexibility during a period of reduced availability of credit, implement capital raising measures such as equity offerings or asset disposals, which could in turn create a risk of diluting existing shareholders, receiving relatively low proceeds and/or causing substantial accounting losses (particularly if done in difficult market conditions). ArcelorMittal’s principal credit facilities (described under “Item 5B—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”) contain restrictive covenants. These covenants limit, inter alia, encumbrances on the assets of ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries, the ability of ArcelorMittal’s subsidiaries to incur debt and the ability of ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries to dispose of assets in certain circumstances. The Company’s principal credit facilities also include the following financial covenant: the Company must ensure that the ratio of “Consolidated Total Net Borrowings” (consolidated total borrowings less consolidated cash and cash equivalents) to “Consolidated EBITDA” (the consolidated net pre-taxation profits of the ArcelorMittal group for a Measurement Period, subject to certain adjustments as defined in the facilities) does not, at the end of each “Measurement Period” (each period of 12 months ending on the last day of a financial half-year or a financial year of the Company), exceed a certain ratio. In August 2009, the Company signed agreements with the lenders under its principal credit facilities to amend this ratio, referred to as its “Leverage Ratio”, from 3.5 to one as originally provided, to 4.5 to one as of December 31, 2009, to 4.0 to one as of June 30, 2010, and reverting to 3.5 to one as of December 31, 2010. ArcelorMittal also agreed to the imposition of certain additional temporary restrictive covenants on its activities if the Leverage Ratio exceeds 3.5 to one for any Measurement Period. These include restrictions on dividends and share reductions, acquisitions, capital expenditure and the giving of loans and guarantees. As of December 31, 2009, the Leverage Ratio stood at approximately 3.2 to one, up from 1.1 to one as of December 31, 2008 and 1.7 to one as of June 30, 2009. Limitations arising from the restrictive and financial covenants described above could limit ArcelorMittal’s operating and financial flexibility, including to distribute dividends, make capital expenditures or engage in strategic acquisitions or investments. Failure to comply with any covenant would enable the lenders to accelerate ArcelorMittal’s repayment obligations. Moreover, ArcelorMittal’s debt facilities have provisions whereby certain events relating to other borrowers within the ArcelorMittal group could, under certain circumstances, lead to acceleration of debt repayment under such credit facilities. Any invocation of these cross-acceleration or cross-default clauses could cause some or all of the other debt to accelerate, creating liquidity pressures. ArcelorMittal’s high level of debt outstanding could have adverse consequences more generally, including by impairing its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes, and limiting its flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions or withstand competitive pressures, resulting in greater vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions. Furthermore, a significant part of ArcelorMittal’s debt is at variable rates of interest and thereby exposes ArcelorMittal to interest rate risk (i.e., if interest rates rise, ArcelorMittal’s debt service obligations on its variable rate indebtedness would increase). Depending on market conditions, ArcelorMittal may use interest-rate swaps or other financial instruments to hedge a portion of its interest rate exposure either from fixed to floating or floating to fixed. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 64% (61% after taking swaps into account) of the outstanding indebtedness of ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries was at fixed rates of interest. ArcelorMittal’s long-term corporate credit rating is currently BBB according to Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, and Baa3 according to Moody’s Investors Service. ArcelorMittal experienced credit rating downgrades in 2009. On May 20, 2009, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded ArcelorMittal’s Baa2 rating to Baa3 and assigned a stable outlook. On June 5, 2009, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services downgraded the Company’s BBB+ long-term corporate credit rating to BBB, and kept its outlook negative. On July 31, 2009, Fitch Ratings changed ArcelorMittal’s outlook to negative from stable. See “Item 5B—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. The ratings agencies could downgrade ArcelorMittal’s ratings either due to factors specific to ArcelorMittal, a prolonged cyclical downturn in the steel industry, or trends in credit and capital markets more generally. Any decline in ArcelorMittal’s credit rating would increase its cost of borrowing and could significantly harm its financial condition, results of operations and profitability, including its ability to refinance its existing indebtedness. 10 Table of Contents ArcelorMittal has grown through acquisitions and will likely continue to do so. Failure to manage external growth and difficulties integrating acquired companies could harm ArcelorMittal’s future results of operations, financial condition and prospects. ArcelorMittal results from Mittal Steel Company N.V.’s 2006 acquisition of, and 2007 merger with, Arcelor, a company of approximately equivalent size. Arcelor itself resulted from the combination of three steel companies, and Mittal Steel had previously grown through numerous acquisitions over many years. ArcelorMittal made numerous acquisitions in 2007 and 2008 before curtailing M&A activity in 2009. Its strategy going forward includes external growth through acquisitions. The Company’s past growth through acquisitions has entailed significant investment and increased operating costs, as well as requiring greater allocation of management resources away from daily operations. Managing growth has required the continued development of ArcelorMittal’s financial and management information control systems, the integration of acquired assets with existing operations, the adoption of manufacturing best practices, attracting and retaining qualified management and personnel as well as the continued training and supervision of such personnel, and the ability to manage the risks and liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. Failure to continue to manage such growth could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In particular, if integration of acquisitions is not successful, ArcelorMittal could lose key personnel and key customers, and may not be able to retain or expand its market position. Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal has the ability to exercise significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes. As of December 31, 2009, Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal (along with his wife, Mrs. Usha Mittal) own 637,504,863 of ArcelorMittal’s outstanding common shares, representing approximately 40.84% of ArcelorMittal’s outstanding voting shares. Consequently, Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal has the ability to significantly influence the decisions adopted at the ArcelorMittal general meetings of shareholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, issuances of equity and the incurrence of indebtedness. Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal also has the ability to significantly influence a change of control of ArcelorMittal. The loss or diminution of the services of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal could have a material adverse effect on its business and prospects. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal, Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal, has for over a quarter of a century contributed significantly to shaping and implementing the business strategy of Mittal Steel and subsequently ArcelorMittal. His strategic vision was instrumental in the creation of the world’s largest and most global steel group. The loss or any diminution of the services of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business and prospects. ArcelorMittal does not maintain key man life insurance on its Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. ArcelorMittal is a holding company that depends on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, which may not be sufficient to meet future operational needs or for shareholder distributions. Because ArcelorMittal is a holding company, it is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends and distributions from, its operating subsidiaries to pay expenses, meet its debt service obligations, pay any cash dividends or distributions on its common shares or conduct share buy-backs. Some of these operating subsidiaries have outstanding debt obligations or are subject to acquisition agreements that impose restrictions or prohibitions on such operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends. Under the laws of Luxembourg, ArcelorMittal will be able to pay dividends or distributions only to the extent that it is entitled to receive cash dividend distributions from its subsidiaries, recognize gains from the sale of its assets or record share premium from the issuance of shares. If earnings and cashflows of its operating subsidiaries are substantially reduced, ArcelorMittal may not be in a position to meet its operational needs or to make shareholder distributions in line with announced proposals. Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain assets, including as a result of adverse market conditions, could result in impairment of such assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill. At each reporting date, ArcelorMittal reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets (excluding goodwill, which is reviewed annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable) to determine whether there is any indication that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable through continuing use. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is reviewed in order to determine the amount of the impairment, if any. The recoverable amount is the higher of its net selling price (fair value reduced by selling costs) and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. An impairment loss is recognized as an expense immediately as part of operating income in the statement of operations. 11 Table of Contents Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts ArcelorMittal paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually at the cash generating unit level or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are determined from value in use calculations, which depend on certain key assumptions. These include assumptions regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market rates for investments of similar risk. The growth rates are based on the Company’s growth forecasts, which are in line with industry trends. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on historical experience and expectations of future changes in the market. See Notes 2 and 8 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. If management’s estimates change, the estimate of the fair value of goodwill could fall significantly and result in impairment. While impairment of goodwill does not affect reported cash flows, it does result in a non-cash charge in the consolidated statement of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s results of operations or financial position. Based on its impairment review in connection with the preparation of its 2009 financial statements, the Company did not record any impairment of goodwill at December 31, 2009. Management believes, however, that reasonably possible changes in key assumptions used in assessing value in use would cause an impairment loss to be recognized in respect of the Company’s AACIS and Stainless Steel segments, which account for approximately $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion of goodwill, respectively. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $14.8 billion of goodwill and $2.2 billion of other intangibles, compared to $14.2 billion of goodwill and $2.5 billion of other intangibles at December 31, 2008. See Note 8 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. The Company also analyzes at each reporting date the recoverable amount of its manufacturing property, plant and equipment based on its value in use, and records an expense to the extent that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded an impairment loss of $564 million in this respect. No assurance can be given as to the absence of significant further impairment charges in future periods, particularly if market conditions deteriorate again as they did in 2008-2009. Capital expenditure commitments and other undertakings arising from past investments may limit ArcelorMittal’s operational flexibility, add to its financing requirements and adversely affect its results of operations and prospects. In connection with the acquisition of certain operating subsidiaries and other investments, ArcelorMittal has committed itself to significant capital expenditures and other undertakings. See “Item 5F—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations” and Note 21 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. ArcelorMittal expects to fund these commitments primarily through internal sources, but it cannot provide assurances in this regard or guarantee that these projects will be completed on time if at all. Failure to comply with commitments in connection with past growth projects may result in forfeiture of a part of ArcelorMittal’s investment, the loss of tax and regulatory benefits, and/or disputes that could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s financial condition or results of operations. ArcelorMittal’s growth strategy includes greenfield and brownfield projects that are inherently subject to completion and financing risks, which, if realized, could adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s results of operations and financial condition. As a part of its future growth strategy, the Company plans to expand its steel making capacity and raw materials self-sufficiency through a combination of brownfield growth, new greenfield projects and acquisition opportunities, mainly in emerging markets such as India, Africa and Brazil. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Business Strategy.” To the extent that these plans proceed, these projects would require substantial capital expenditures (with the attendant risks noted above), and timely completion may be affected by factors beyond the control of ArcelorMittal. These factors include receiving financing on reasonable terms, obtaining or renewing required regulatory approvals and licenses, local opposition to land acquisition or project development (as experienced, for example, in connection with the Company’s projects in India), demand for the Company’s products and general economic conditions. Any of these factors may cause the Company to delay, modify or forego some or all aspects of its expansion plans. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to execute these projects, and to the extent that they proceed, that it will be able to complete them on schedule, within budget, or achieve an adequate return on its investment. ArcelorMittal’s mining operations are subject to mining risks. ArcelorMittal operates mines and has substantially increased the scope of its mining activities in recent years. Mining operations are subject to hazards and risks usually associated with the exploration, development and production of natural resources, any of which could result in production shortfalls or damage to persons or property. In particular, hazards associated with open-pit mining operations include, among others: • flooding of the open pit; • collapse of the open-pit wall; • accidents associated with the operation of large open-pit mining and rock transportation equipment; • incidents associated with the preparation and ignition of large-scale open-pit blasting operations; • production disruptions due to weather; and • hazards associated with the disposal of mineralized waste water, such as groundwater and waterway contamination; Hazards associated with underground mining operations, of which ArcelorMittal has several, include, among others: • underground fires and explosions, including those caused by flammable gas; 12 Table of Contents • gas and coal outbursts; • cave-ins or falls of ground; • discharges of gases and toxic chemicals; • flooding; • sinkhole formation and ground subsidence; • other accidents and conditions resulting from drilling; and • blasting and removing, and processing material from, an underground mine. ArcelorMittal is exposed to all of these hazards. Among other accidents experienced over recent years, in January 2008, a methane gas explosion at ArcelorMittal’s Abaiskaya underground mine in Kazakhstan resulted in 30 fatalities and a cessation or disruption of operations for six months. On June 2, 2008 a coal and gas explosion caused by an unpredictable geological failure took place at the Tentekskaya mine in Kazakhstan and claimed the lives of five miners. Since then, the development roadway has been recovered and operations have resumed. The reoccurrence of any of these events, or the occurrence of any of those listed above, could delay production, increase production costs and result in death or injury to persons, damage to property and liability for ArcelorMittal, some or all of which may not be covered by insurance, as well as substantially harm ArcelorMittal’s reputation as a company focused on ensuring the health and safety of its employees. Underfunding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans at some of ArcelorMittal’s operating subsidiaries could require the Company to make substantial cash contributions to pension plans or to pay for employee healthcare, which may reduce the cash available for ArcelorMittal’s business. ArcelorMittal’s principal operating subsidiaries in Brazil, Canada, Europe, South Africa and the United States provide defined benefit pension plans to their employees. Some of these plans are currently underfunded. At December 31, 2009, the value of ArcelorMittal USA’s pension plan assets was $2.1 billion, while the projected benefit obligation was $3.3 billion, resulting in a deficit of $1.1 billion. At December 31, 2009, the value of the pension plan assets of ArcelorMittal’s Canadian subsidiaries was $2.4 billion, while the projected benefit obligation was $2.9 billion, resulting in a deficit of $492 million. At December 31, 2009, the value of the pension plan assets of ArcelorMittal’s European subsidiaries was $644 million, while the projected benefit obligation was $2.5 billion, resulting in a deficit of $1.9 billion. ArcelorMittal USA also had a partially underfunded post-employment benefit obligation of $4.0 billion relating to life insurance and medical benefits as of December 31, 2009. The value of ArcelorMittal USA post-employment benefit plan assets were $559 million, resulting in a deficit of $3.4 billion. ArcelorMittal’s Canadian subsidiaries also had an under-funded post-employment benefit obligation of $778 million relating to life insurance and medical benefits as of December 31, 2009. ArcelorMittal’s European subsidiaries also had a partially under-funded post-employment benefit obligation of $564 million relating to life insurance and medical benefits as of December 31, 2009. See Note 22 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. ArcelorMittal’s funding obligations depend upon future asset performance, the level of interest rates used to discount future liabilities, actuarial assumptions and experience, benefit plan changes and government regulation. Because of the large number of variables that determine pension funding requirements, which are difficult to predict, as well as any legislative action, future cash funding requirements for ArcelorMittal’s pension plans and other post-employment benefit plans could be significantly higher than current estimates. In these circumstances funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal could experience labor disputes that may disrupt its operations and its relationships with its customers. A majority of the employees of ArcelorMittal and of its contractors are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Strikes or work stoppages could occur prior to, or during, the negotiations preceding new collective bargaining agreements, during wage and benefits negotiations or during other periods for other reasons. ArcelorMittal periodically experiences strikes and work stoppages at various facilities prolonged strikes or work stoppages, which may increase in their severity and frequency and may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial results of ArcelorMittal. ArcelorMittal is subject to economic policy risks and political, social and legal uncertainties in some of the developing countries in which it operates or proposes to operate. Any deterioration or disruption of the business environment in those countries may have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal operates, or proposes to operate, in a large number of developing countries. In recent years, many of these countries have implemented measures aimed at improving the business environment and providing a stable platform for economic development. ArcelorMittal’s business strategy has been developed partly on the assumption that this modernization, restructuring and upgrading of the business climate and physical infrastructure will continue, but which cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of the recent global economic crisis. Risks of widespread insolvency, mass unemployment and the deterioration of various sectors of the economies where ArcelorMittal operates increased during crisis. Any slowdown in the development of these economies could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, as could insufficient investment by government agencies or the private sector in physical infrastructure. For example, the failure of a country to develop reliable electricity and natural gas supplies and networks, and any resulting shortages or rationing, could lead to disruptions in ArcelorMittal’s production. 13 Table of Contents Moreover, some of the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates have been undergoing substantial political transformations from centrally-controlled command economies to market-oriented systems. Political, economic and legal reforms necessary to complete such transformation may not continue. On occasion, ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions have given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, wide-scale civil disturbances and military conflict. The political systems in developing countries are vulnerable to their populations’ dissatisfaction with reforms, social and ethnic unrest and changes in governmental policies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and its ability to continue to do business in these countries. In addition, the legal systems in some of the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates remain less than fully developed, particularly with respect to property rights, the protection of foreign investment and bankruptcy proceedings, generally resulting in a lower level of legal certainty or security for foreign investment than in more developed countries. ArcelorMittal may encounter difficulties in enforcing court judgments or arbitral awards in some countries in which it operates among other reasons because those countries may not be parties to treaties that recognize the mutual enforcement of court judgments. Assets in certain countries where ArcelorMittal operates could also be at risk of expropriation or nationalization, and compensation for such assets may be below fair value. For example, the Venezuelan government has announced a policy of selective nationalization of companies operating in the country, and has effected a number of nationalizations. Although ArcelorMittal believes that the long-term growth potential in developing markets is strong, and intends them to be the focus of the majority of its near-term growth capital expenditures, legal obstacles could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of ArcelorMittal’s growth plans and its operations in such countries. ArcelorMittal’s results of operations could be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange markets, as well as by exchange controls imposed by governmental authorities in the countries where it operates. ArcelorMittal operates and sells products globally, and, as a result, its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. A substantial portion of ArcelorMittal’s assets, liabilities, operating costs, sales and earnings are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (ArcelorMittal’s reporting currency), fluctuations in exchange rates to the U.S. dollar, could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal also operates in several countries whose currencies are, or have in the past been, subject to limitations imposed by those countries’ central banks, or which have experienced sudden and significant devaluations, such as occurred in Venezuela in January 2010. Currency devaluations, the imposition of new exchange controls or other similar restrictions on currency convertibility, or the tightening of existing controls, in the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Foreign Exchange”. Disruptions to ArcelorMittal’s manufacturing processes could adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s operations, customer service levels and financial results. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steel-making equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and such equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns. ArcelorMittal’s manufacturing plants have experienced, and may in the future experience, plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. To the extent that lost production as a result of such a disruption could not be compensated for by unaffected facilities, such disruptions could have an adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s operations, customer service levels and financial results. Natural disasters could significantly damage ArcelorMittal’s production facilities. Natural disasters could significantly damage ArcelorMittal’s production facilities and general infrastructure. For example, ArcelorMittal Lázaro Cárdenas’s production facilities are located in Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán, Mexico and ArcelorMittal Temirtau is located in the Karaganda region of the Republic of Kazakhstan, both these areas are prone to earthquakes of varying magnitudes. ArcelorMittal Point Lisas is located in Trinidad, which is vulnerable to hurricanes. Extensive damage to these facilities or any other major production complexes and staff casualties whether as a result of floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other natural disasters, could, to the extent that lost production as a result of such a disaster could not be compensated for by unaffected facilities, severely affect ArcelorMittal’s ability to conduct its business operations and, as a result, reduce its future operating results. ArcelorMittal’s insurance policies provide limited coverage, potentially leaving it uninsured against some business risks. The occurrence of an event that is uninsurable or not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal maintains insurance on property and equipment in amounts believed to be consistent with industry practices but it is not fully insured against all business risks. ArcelorMittal’s insurance policies cover physical loss or damage to its property and equipment on a reinstatement basis arising from a number of specified risks and certain consequential losses, including business interruption arising from the occurrence of an insured event under the policies. Under these policies, damages and losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and windstorms, are also covered. Each of the operating subsidiaries of ArcelorMittal also maintains various other types of insurance, such as workmen’s compensation insurance and marine insurance. 14 Table of Contents In addition, ArcelorMittal maintains trade credit insurance on receivables from selected customers, subject to limits that it believes are consistent with those in the steel industry, in order to protect it against the risk of non-payment due to customers’ insolvency or other causes. Not all of ArcelorMittal’s customers are or can be insured, and even when insurance is available, it may not fully cover the exposure. As a result of the 2008-2009 economic downturn, which has had a particularly severe impact on certain countries and industries, including the automobile industry, insurers no longer provide coverage for certain customers or impose trade credit insurance limits that are not sufficient to cover the Company’s exposure to certain customers. Notwithstanding the insurance coverage that ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries carry, the occurrence of an accident that causes losses in excess of limits specified under the relevant policy, or losses arising from events not covered by insurance policies, could materially harm ArcelorMittal’s financial condition and future operating results. Product liability claims could adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s operations. ArcelorMittal sells products to major manufacturers engaged in manufacturing and selling a wide range of end products. ArcelorMittal also from time to time offers advice to these manufacturers. Furthermore, ArcelorMittal’s products are also sold to, and used in, certain safety-critical applications. There could be significant consequential damages resulting from the use of such products. ArcelorMittal has a limited amount of product liability insurance coverage, and a major claim for damages related to ArcelorMittal products sold and, as the case may be, advice given in connection with such products could leave ArcelorMittal uninsured against a portion or all of the award and, as a result, materially harm its financial condition and future operating results. ArcelorMittal is subject to regulatory risk, and may incur liabilities arising from investigations by governmental authorities and litigation, among others, regarding its pricing and marketing practices or other antitrust matters. ArcelorMittal is the largest steel producer in the world. As a result of this position, ArcelorMittal may be subject to exacting scrutiny from regulatory authorities and private parties, particularly regarding its trade practices and dealings with customers and counterparties. As a result of its position in the steel markets and its historically acquisitive growth strategy, ArcelorMittal could be the target of governmental investigations and lawsuits based on antitrust laws in particular. These could require significant expenditures and result in liabilities or governmental orders that could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. ArcelorMittal and certain of its subsidiaries are currently under investigation by governmental entities in several countries, and are named as defendants in a number of lawsuits relating to various antitrust matters. For example, in December 2008 the French Competition Council ruled that subsidiaries of ArcelorMittal had agreed with their competitors to fix prices and allocate markets and customers during the 1999 to 2004 period and imposed a fine of €301.78 million, although the fine was subsequently reduced on appeal in January 2010 to €42 million. Also, in September 2008, Standard Iron Works filed a class action complaint in U.S. federal court against ArcelorMittal, ArcelorMittal USA Inc. and other steel manufacturers, alleging on behalf of direct purchasers that the defendants conspired since 2005 to restrict the output of steel products in order to affect steel prices. Since the filing of the Standard Iron Works lawsuit, other similar lawsuits, including a lawsuit on behalf of indirect purchasers, have been filed and have been reassigned to the court overseeing this lawsuit. A motion by the defendants in the case to dismiss the complaint was denied in June 2009. Antitrust proceedings and investigations involving ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries are also currently pending in Brazil, Europe and South Africa. Because of the fact-intensive nature of the issues involved and the inherent uncertainty of such litigation and investigations, negative outcomes are possible. An adverse ruling in the proceedings described above or in other similar proceedings in the future could subject ArcelorMittal to substantial administrative penalties and/or civil damages. In cases relating to other companies, civil damages have ranged as high as hundreds of millions of U.S. dollars in major civil antitrust proceedings during the last decade. With respect to the pending U.S. federal court litigation, ArcelorMittal could be subject to treble damages. Although ArcelorMittal has established reserves for certain antitrust claims (see “Item 8A—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Legal Claims—Competition/Antitrust Claims”), unfavorable outcomes in current and potential future litigation and investigations could reduce ArcelorMittal’s liquidity and negatively affect its financial performance and its financial condition. In addition to regulatory risk relating to antitrust, ArcelorMittal has been, and to some degree remains, subject to regulatory risk relating to state aid received in past years in connection with its acquisitions of certain steel facilities in Eastern Europe that were privatized. A breach or purported breach of the European Union’s rules and transitional arrangements governing this state aid could result in a decision by the European Commission ordering relevant government authorities to take measures to recover the aid that was granted. In Romania, compliance with the transitional arrangements is currently being reviewed. ArcelorMittal’s governance and compliance processes may fail to prevent regulatory penalties and reputational harm. ArcelorMittal operates in a global environment, and its activities straddle multiple jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks at a time of increased enforcement activity worldwide. The Company’s governance and compliance processes, which include the review of internal control over financial reporting, may not prevent all future breaches of law, accounting or governance standards. ArcelorMittal may be subject to breaches of its Code of Business Conduct, business conduct protocols and instances of fraudulent behavior and dishonesty by its employees, contractors or other agents. The Company’s failure to comply with applicable laws and other standards could subject it to fines, loss of operating licenses and reputational harm. 15 Table of Contents The income tax liability of ArcelorMittal may substantially increase if the tax laws and regulations in countries in which it operates change or become subject to adverse interpretations or inconsistent enforcement. Taxes payable by companies in many of the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates are substantial and include value-added tax, excise duties, profit taxes, payroll-related taxes, property taxes and other taxes. Tax laws and regulations in some of these countries may be subject to frequent change, varying interpretation and inconsistent enforcement. Ineffective tax collection systems and continuing budget requirements may increase the likelihood of the imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the usual tax burden imposed on taxpayers, these conditions create uncertainty as to the tax implications of various business decisions. This uncertainty could expose ArcelorMittal to significant fines and penalties and to enforcement measures despite its best efforts at compliance, and could result in a greater than expected tax burden. See Note 18 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, many of the jurisdictions in which ArcelorMittal operates have adopted transfer pricing legislation. If tax authorities impose significant additional tax liabilities as a result of transfer pricing adjustments, it could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that tax authorities in the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates will introduce additional revenue raising measures. The introduction of any such provisions may affect the overall tax efficiency of ArcelorMittal and may result in significant additional taxes becoming payable. Any such additional tax exposure could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. ArcelorMittal may face a significant increase in its income taxes if tax rates increase or the tax laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, or treaties between those jurisdictions, are modified in an adverse manner. This may adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s cash flows, liquidity and ability to pay dividends. If ArcelorMittal were unable to utilize fully its deferred tax assets, its profitability could be reduced. At December 31, 2009, ArcelorMittal had $4.8 billion recorded as deferred tax assets on its statement of financial position. These assets can be utilized only if, and only to the extent that, ArcelorMittal’s operating subsidiaries generate adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss carry forwards and reverse the temporary differences prior to expiration. At December 31, 2009, the amount of future income required to recover ArcelorMittal’s deferred tax assets was approximately $16.4 billion at certain operating subsidiaries. ArcelorMittal’s ability to generate taxable income is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. If ArcelorMittal generates lower taxable income than the amount it has assumed in determining its deferred tax assets, then the value of deferred tax assets will be reduced. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against ArcelorMittal and its directors and senior management. ArcelorMittal is incorporated under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with its principal executive offices and corporate headquarters in Luxembourg. The majority of ArcelorMittal’s directors and senior management are residents of jurisdictions outside of the United States. The majority of ArcelorMittal’s assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, U.S. investors may find it difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon ArcelorMittal or these persons or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against ArcelorMittal or these persons in U.S. courts, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for an investor to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against ArcelorMittal or these persons in courts in jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for a U.S. investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against ArcelorMittal’s directors and senior management and non-U.S. experts named in this annual report. 