Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the U.S. Financial Industry Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: ● We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. ● Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. ● The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our loan and investment portfolios requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and trust preferred securities issuers to repay their debts. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. ● Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. ● We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. 56 Recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies may not help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. The EESA gives broad authority to the Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other "troubled assets." The EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: ● authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; ● mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; ● temporary increase in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and ● authority to the SEC to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On November 12, 2008, the Treasury Secretary announced that the Treasury was no longer pursuing a broad plan to purchase illiquid mortgage-related assets, but would continue to examine whether targeted forms of asset purchase can play a useful role. Shortly following the enactment of the EESA, the Treasury announced the creation of a capital purchase program, or CPP, pursuant to which it proposes to provide access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier I capital. Rainier Pacific Financial Group has not received any funds from, nor anticipates participating in, the CPP. The EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others of which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the currently liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage lending downturn that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the repeated lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Treasury also recently announced its Financial Stability Plan, to attack the current credit crisis, and its Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, which seeks to help up to nine million families restructure or refinance their mortgages to avoid foreclosure. In addition, on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Moreover, on October 14, 2008, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation announced the establishment of a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions are automatically covered by this program for the period commencing October 14, 2008 and will continue to be covered as long as they did not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. Rainier Pacific Bank did not opt out of the program. Under the program, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior 57 unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The actual impact that the EESA and other measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis and foster an economic recovery will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Business We recorded other-than-temporary impairment charges in our trust preferred CDO securities portfolio, which contributed to a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008. If we are required to record additional other-than-temporary impairment charges on our trust preferred CDO securities portfolio, we could experience potentially significant losses, become significantly undercapitalized and adversely affect our continuing operations. At December 31, 2008, we held $108.0 million (par value) in 15 separate investment securities holdings of collateralized debt obligations secured by pooled trust preferred securities issued by more than 500 banks and approximately 40 insurance companies geographically dispersed across the United States. At December 31, 2008 the fair value of these securities was $14.9 million. We recorded a non-cash other-than- temporary impairment ("OTTI") charge of $21.7 million on three of these investment securities during the quarter ended December 31, 2008, reducing the carrying amount of these three securities on Rainier Pacific Financial Group's balance sheet from $25.5 million to a fair value of $3.8 million. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, when a security is deemed to be OTTI, it must be written down to its fair value as a charge against net income. The remaining 12 trust preferred CDO securities held by us were determined to not be OTTI, and their weighted average fair value was estimated by us to be approximately $0.13 for every $1.00 of par value or $11.1 million, as of December 31, 2008. Rainier Pacific Financial Group has reflected the temporary change in the value of these 12 securities holdings as an unrealized loss of $71.5 million (pre-tax) or $47.2 million net of income tax benefit, as a component of shareholders' equity (i.e., accumulated other comprehensive loss). We closely monitor these and our other investment securities for changes in credit risk, and intend to hold our trust preferred CDO securities until the market value recovers or they mature. The valuation of these securities will also continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board guidance on fair value accounting, specific issuer credit deterioration, deferral and default rates of specific issuer financial institutions, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposure to valuation changes in these securities by selling them. Accordingly, if market conditions deteriorate further and we determine additional holdings of these or other investment securities are OTTI, our future earnings, shareholders' equity, regulatory capital and continuing operations could be materially adversely affected. 58 We may be required to take a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets which could adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels. Our net deferred tax asset totaled $37.6 million at December 31, 2008. Of that amount, $24.3 million was related to the unrealized losses on 12 of our trust preferred CDO securities, and $7.4 million was related to other-than-temporary impairment charges taken against three of our other trust preferred CDO securities. The determination of our ability to fully utilize our deferred tax assets requires significant judgement, the use of estimates and the interpretation of complex tax laws. We believe, based upon available information, that other than a valuation allowance of $965,000 against charitable contributions made in 2003 and 2004, we will be able to realize our net deferred tax asset in the normal course of operations. However, if it is determined that we "more likely than not" would be unable to fully recognize the deferred tax asset, we would be subject to a material adverse charge against our future earnings, shareholders' equity, and regulatory capital. We are subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and are subject to certain business limitations. Further, we may be subject to more severe future regulatory enforcement actions if our financial condition or performance weakens. In light of the current challenging operating environment and our recent operating results, we have been working closely with our federal and state banking regulators. In this regard, the management and the boards of directors of Rainier Pacific Financial Group and the Bank have focused particular attention on the areas of asset quality, capital management, and liquidity, seeking to improve performance in each area in view of current unfavorable economic conditions. Rainier Pacific Financial Group and the Bank have also been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. As part of this scrutiny, the Bank's principal federal regulator, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has imposed on the Bank the requirements that the Bank provide prior notice to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regarding any additions or changes to directors or senior executive officers, and that the Bank not pay certain kinds of severance and other forms of compensation without regulatory approval. In addition, the Bank is expected to be subject to higher regulatory assessments and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation deposit insurance premiums than those prevailing in prior periods. We are working to address the issues raised by our regulators, many of which are being corrected, but any current or past actions, violations or deficiencies could be the subject of future regulatory enforcement actions taken by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions. Such enforcement actions could involve penalties or limitations on our business at the Bank or Rainier Pacific Financial Group and negatively affect our ability to implement our business plans and the value of Rainier Pacific Financial Group's common stock. Weakening economic conditions, particularly in Washington State, have adversely impacted our results of operations and financial condition, and could continue to cause us to incur losses. Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies, and inflation; all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that continued during 2008 and is expected through 2009. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within our primary market area in the Pierce County, Thurston County and South King County, are having and may continue to have a material adverse impact on the quality of our loan portfolio and the demand for our products and services. In particular an economic slowdown in our market area is resulting in many of the following conditions, which could hurt our business materially: ● an increase in loan delinquencies; ● an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; 59 ● a decline in the value of loan collateral, especially real estate, which, in turn has reduced customers' borrowing power and reduced the value of assets and collateral securing our loans; and ● a decline in the demand for our products and services. Our real estate construction and land, commercial real estate and multifamily loan portfolios, and certain of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that further declines in the estate markets in our primary market area will hurt our business. If real estate values continue to decline the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently had difficulty in raising considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Such additional capital may be highly dilutive to the interest of the existing common stock shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and dependent on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with other economic factors, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic recession, which continued in 2008. Many lending institutions have experienced substantial declines in the performance of their loans, including construction and land loans, commercial real estate and multi-family mortgage loans, commercial business loans, and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many construction/land development, commercial real estate, multifamily, other commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 60 We are subject to extensive regulation from numerous governmental agencies, which could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, primarily through Rainier Pacific Bank. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the federal deposit insurance fund and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders or debt holders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. These changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, violations may still occur. See Item 1., "Business - How We Are Regulated - Regulation and Supervision of Rainier Pacific Bank." Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market area have, and are expected to continue to, hurt our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in Pierce County, Thurston County and South King County. While we do not have any sub-prime loans, our real estate construction and land loan portfolio, our commercial and multifamily loan portfolios and certain of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market area are probable and will hurt our business. As of December 31, 2008, substantially all of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate. If real estate values continue to decline the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our future earnings. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.98% of total loans, and 54.3% of nonperforming loans, at December 31, 2008. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses, or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 61 We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008 we recorded a provision for loan losses of $7.0 million compared to $600,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net loan charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $1.8 million and $804,000, respectively, and we are experiencing increasing loan delinquencies. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy. In addition, slowing sales of homes and lots have been a contributing factor to the increase in nonperforming loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. At December 31, 2008 our total non- performing loans had increased to $24.5 million compared to $497,000 at December 31, 2007. In that regard, our portfolio includes construction and land development loans and commercial and multi-family real estate loans, all of which have a higher risk of loss than residential mortgage loans. While loans related to our construction and land portfolio represented 12.2% of our gross loan portfolio at December 31, 2008, they represented 98.1% of our nonperforming assets at that date. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, the current national economic recession has negatively impacted economic conditions in our market areas and we expect to experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. An increase in our credit losses or our provision for loan losses would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans with the potential for a higher risk of loss. We originate real estate construction and land loans, commercial and multi-family mortgage loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and one-to-four family residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Generally, these types of loans, other than the one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, have a higher risk of loss. We had approximately $616.0 million outstanding in these types of higher risk loans at December 31, 2008. These loans have greater credit risk than one-to-four family residential real estate loans for a number of reasons, including those described below: Construction and Land Development Loans. This type of lending contains the inherent difficulty in estimating both a property's value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. If the estimate of construction cost proves to be inaccurate, we may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of value upon completion proves to be inaccurate, we may be confronted at, or prior to, the maturity of the loan with a project the value of which is insufficient to assure full repayment. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk to us than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Loans on land under development or held for future construction also pose additional risk because of the lack of income being produced by the property and the potential illiquid nature of the collateral. These risks can be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions. As a result, this type of lending often involves the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor themselves to repay principal and interest. At December 31, 2008, we had $81.9 million or 12.2% of gross loans in construction and land development loans. Our construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate. Construction and land development lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builder/developers. In addition, during the term of a construction and land development loan, no payment from the borrower is generally required since the interest is added to the principal of the loan through an interest reserve. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the 62 property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Further, as a result of the slowdown in the housing market, we have extended construction loans to permit completion of the project or the borrower additional time to market the underlying collateral. Most of these loans mature within 12 months. To the extent these loans are not further extended or the borrower cannot otherwise refinance with a third party lender our non-performing construction loans may increase. Commercial and Multi-family Residential Loans. These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans, and repayment is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Commercial and multi-family mortgage loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. At December 31, 2008, we had $402.2 million or 59.9% of gross loans in commercial and multifamily mortgage loans. If we foreclose on a commercial real estate or multi-family loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, as a result of our increasing emphasis on this type of lending, a large portion of our commercial real estate or multi-family loan portfolio can be considered relatively unseasoned and has not been subjected to severe unfavorable economic conditions. As a result we may not have enough payment history with which to judge future collectibility or to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. These loans may have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience of none, which could adversely affect our future performance. Further, commercial real estate and multi-family loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial real estate and multi-family loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as automobile loans) are often collateralized, if at all, with assets that may not provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower's financial stability, and thus are more likely to be adversely affected by job loss, divorce, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount that can be recovered on these loans. At December 31, 2008, we had $85.6 million or 12.7% of gross loans in consumer loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of investments or loans, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or the terms of which are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets, negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations, financial difficulties in the Federal Home Loan Bank system, and the continued deterioration in credit markets. The Bank is authorized to borrow up to 50% of assets on the line of credit it maintains with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle, subject to the amount of qualifying collateral it holds. At December 31, 2008, we held 63 $331.7 million in qualifying collateral with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and had borrowed $291.2 million on our line of credit compared to $320.5 million at December 31, 2007. The borrowing capacity available from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle at December 31, 2008 was $40.5 million. At December 31, 2008, we held $87.4 million in brokered certificates of deposits compared to $60.9 million at December 31, 2007. We use brokered certificates of deposit to supplement our regular deposit gathering activities. Recently, regulatory agencies have expressed concerns about the level of brokered deposits that some banks hold and their reliance on those deposits. Furthermore, due to the Bank falling below the "well-capitalized" regulatory threshold at December 31, 2008, we are no longer eligible to accept or renew brokered deposits without pre approval from the FDIC. If our funding needs were greater than the remaining $40.5 million available on our lines of credit, we would have to raise retail deposits or sell assets to provide additional liquidity. If the Bank had to quickly raise deposits (subject to limitations imposed by our regulatory agencies) or sell assets, we may have to pay above market rates to raise those deposits or sell assets at a loss, both of which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. If external deposits or borrowings were not available, this could adversely impact our growth and prospects. We rely on retail and brokered deposits, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances as necessary, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our results of operations or financial condition or the results of operations or financial condition of the Federal Home Loan Bank or market conditions were to change. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, there can be no assurance in this regard and we may be compelled or elect to seek additional sources of funding in the future. Likewise, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives, in connection with future acquisitions or for other reasons. There can be no assurance additional borrowings, if sought, would be available to us or, if available, would be on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our deposit insurance assessments will increase substantially, which will adversely affect our profits. Our assessment for federal deposit insurance from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $300,000 at an assessment rate of seven basis points for deposits. Assessments for federal deposit insurance are expected to increase significantly for 2009 as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation implements its Deposit Insurance Fund restoration plan that it adopted on February 27, 2009 by interim rule. The restoration plan increases the base assessment rates for banks of all risk categories, adjusts premiums for new risk factors, and imposes an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points payable on September 30, 2009 based on deposits as of June 30, 2009. Based on our deposits as of December 31, 2008 of $519.2 million our estimated assessment cost would be approximately $1.0 million. Although there is a proposal under discussion under which the FDIC would reduce the special assessment to 10 basis points, there can be no assurance whether the proposal will become effective. Accordingly, we expect our base assessment to significantly increase in 2009 as compared to 2008. The interim rule would also permit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to impose an additional emergency special assessment after June 30, 2009, of up to ten basis points if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality 64 and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. Recently, interest rates dropped quickly and significantly. Since September 18, 2007, the U.S. Federal Reserve decreased its target for federal funds rate from 5.25% to 0.25%, for a total decrease of 500 basis points. Sudden significant decreases in these short-term market interest rates negatively impact our net interest margins as our assets tend to reprice faster than our liabilities in the short-term. However, sudden and significant increases in short-term market rates can also adversely affect our net interest margins and the value of our assets. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. At December 31, 2008, we had $275.1 million in loans due after one year with fixed rates of interest, representing 40.9% of our total loan portfolio and 32.5% of our total assets. Our most recent "rate shock" analysis indicates that our net portfolio value would be more adversely affected by a decrease in interest rates than by anincrease. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Asset and Liability Management and Market Risk." We could face an assessment to guarantee public funds in Washington State. We accept state and local fund deposits from public treasurers in Washington State as a Qualified Public Depositary under the State's Public Deposit Protection Act administered by the Public Deposit Protection Commission or the Commission. As of December 31, 2008 we held $3.5 million in public funds. Washington law requires qualified banks and thrifts to pledge eligible collateral into a collateral pool administered by the Commission to mutually guarantee with other members of the pool against a loss of funds suffered by a public treasurer as a result of a failure by a member of the pool. We meet the minimum standards under the law and are only required to pledge collateral at least equal to 10% of the public deposits we hold. The Commission has the authority to require up to 100% collateral for banks not meeting minimum standards. Our maximum liability should any member(s) of the collateral pool default on their uninsured public funds is limited to 10% of public funds we hold. Assessments for loss are based on a pro rata share of public funds held. Our estimated share of total public funds on December 31, 2008 was approximately 0.04%. The "Thrift Collateral Pool," which we are a member, has never had an assessment for a loss of uninsured public deposits by any member of the pool. The "Bank Collateral Pool" had its first ever assessment in the first quarter of 2009. Legislation is actively being considered to require all public depositaries to pledge 100% eligible collateral against public funds held on deposit. Should this legislation become law, each public depositary would be individually responsible for the protection of uninsured public funds they hold. The legislation would also merge the Thrift and Bank Collateral pools. We could see declines in our uninsured deposits which would reduce the funds we have available for lending and other funding purposes. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the fourth quarter of 2008 increased the federal insurance of deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000 and provided 100% insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts for participating members including Rainier Pacific Bank. These increases of coverage, with the exception of IRA and certain retirement accounts are set to expire at the end of 2009. Congress is considering the extension of the deposit insurance increases. With the increase of bank failures, depositors are reviewing deposit relationships to maximize federal deposit insurance coverage. We may see outflows of uninsured deposits as customers restructure their banking relationships in setting up multiple accounts in multiple banks to maximize federal deposit insurance coverage. 65 Our ability to foreclose on single family home loans may be restricted. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy judges the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures. Bankruptcy judges would be given the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower's payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. This legislation may restrict our collection efforts on one-to-four family loans. Separately, the administration has announced a voluntary program under the TARP law which provides for government subsidies for reducing a borrower's interest rate, which a lender would have to match with its own money. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. The banking and financial services industry is very competitive. Legal and regulatory developments have made it easier for new and sometimes unregulated entities to compete with us. Consolidation among financial service providers has resulted in fewer very large national and regional banking and financial institutions holding a large accumulation of assets. These institutions generally have significantly greater resources, a wider geographic presence or greater accessibility. Our competitors may be able to offer more services, more favorable pricing or greater customer convenience than we do. In addition, our competition has grown from new banks and other financial services providers that target our existing or potential customers. As consolidation continues among large banks, we expect additional institutions to try to exploit our market. Technological developments have allowed competitors, including some non-depository institutions, to compete more effectively in local markets and have expanded the range of financial products, services and capital available to our target customers. If we are unable to implement, maintain and use such technologies effectively, we may not be able to offer products or achieve cost-efficiencies necessary to compete in our industry. In addition, some of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures. We are exposed to a failure or breach of our technology. As a financial services company, we are heavily dependent on our core processing system and computer networks to conduct our business. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. To this end, we have a project underway to replace essentially all of our core banking systems schedule for implementation in August 2009. It is possible that we may not be able to effectively implement these new technology systems, or related products and services, or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of such a failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, failures, interruptions or security breaches may still occur, and if they do occur, they may not be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party service providers for much of our core processing, communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources for these services. We may not be able to negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or obtain services with similar functionality, as found in our existing systems, without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse affect on our business. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. 66 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Rainier Pacific Financial Group has not received any written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that are unresolved. Item 