D. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Risks Related to the Global Economy and the Steel Industry ArcelorMittal’s activities and results are substantially affected by regional and global macroeconomic conditions. Recessions or prolonged periods of weak growth in the global economy or the economies of ArcelorMittal’s key selling markets have in the past had and in the future would be likely to have a material adverse effect on the steel industry and ArcelorMittal. The steel industry has historically been highly cyclical. This is due largely to the cyclical nature of the business sectors that are the principal consumers of steel, namely the automotive, construction, appliance, machinery, equipment, infrastructure and transportation industries. The demand for steel products thus generally correlates to macroeconomic fluctuations in the global economy. This correlation and the adverse effect of macroeconomic downturns on steel producers were evidenced in the 2008/2009 financial and subsequent economic crisis. The results of steel producers were substantially affected, with many (including ArcelorMittal) recording sharply reduced revenues and operating losses. The recovery from this severe economic downturn has been slow and uncertain, and was negatively affected by several factors in 2011 including the Euro-zone sovereign debt crisis and a cooling of emerging market economies. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Economic Environment”. A new global recession, a recession in the developed regions (Europe and North America) that are ArcelorMittal’s primary selling markets, and/or a slowdown in emerging economies that are substantial consumers of steel (such as China, Brazil, Russia and India, as well as emerging Asian markets, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”) regions) would likely result in reduced demand for (and hence price of) steel and have a material adverse effect on the steel industry in general and on ArcelorMittal’s results of operations and financial condition in particular. Excess capacity and oversupply in the steel industry globally and particularly in China may hamper the steel industry’s recovery and weigh on the profitability of steel producers including ArcelorMittal. In addition to economic conditions, the steel industry is affected by global production capacity and fluctuations in steel imports/exports and tariffs. The steel industry has historically suffered from structural over-capacity. The industry is currently characterized by a substantial increase in production capacity in the developing world, particularly in China, and also in India and other emerging markets. China is now the largest global steel producer by a large margin, and the balance between its domestic production and consumption has been an important factor in global steel prices in recent years. Chinese steel exports, or conditions favorable to them (excess steel capacity in China, an undervalued Chinese currency and/or higher market prices for steel in markets outside of China) can have a significant impact on steel prices in other markets, including the U.S. and Europe. While growth in Chinese steel production slowed in 2011, ArcelorMittal remains exposed to the risk of steel production increases in China and other markets outstripping increases in real demand, in particular given indications of a slowdown in worldwide demand, including Chinese demand, which may weigh on price recovery and therefore exacerbate the “margin squeeze” in the steel industry created by high-cost raw materials. Protracted low steel prices would have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s results, as could price volatility. The prices of steel products are influenced by many factors, including demand, worldwide production capacity, capacity-utilization rates, raw material prices and contract arrangements, steel inventory levels and exchange rates. Steel prices are volatile, reflecting the inherent volatility of these variables as well as more generally the highly cyclical nature of the global steel industry. Following an extended period of rising prices, global steel prices fell sharply during the financial and economic crisis of 2008/2009. This resulted from the sharp drop in demand and was exacerbated by massive industry destocking (i.e., customer reductions of steel inventories). This had a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal and other steel producers, who experienced lower revenues, margins and, as discussed further below, write-downs of finished steel products and raw material inventories. Steel prices gradually recovered in late 2009 and into 2010 while remaining below their pre-financial crisis peaks. Steel prices remained volatile throughout 2011 rising in the first quarter on stronger demand and higher raw material prices but softening in the second half. The softening accelerated in the fourth quarter as iron ore prices dropped sharply in October, and customers then started to destock in an uncertain economic environment. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Key Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Steel Prices”. While there has been some increase in price levels to date in 2012, any sustained price recovery will likely require a broad economic recovery in order to underpin an increase in real demand for steel products by end users. Conversely, a protracted downturn in steel prices would materially and adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s revenues and profitability. Volatility in the supply and prices of raw materials, energy and transportation, and mismatches with steel price trends, could adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s results of operations. Steel production consumes substantial amounts of raw materials including iron ore, coking coal and coke. Because the production of direct reduced iron, the production of steel in electric arc furnaces and the re-heating of steel involve the use of significant amounts of energy, steel companies are also sensitive to natural gas and electricity prices and dependent on having access to reliable supplies of energy. Any prolonged interruption in the supply of raw materials or energy would adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s results of operation and financial condition. The prices of iron ore, coking coal and coke are highly volatile and may be affected by, among other factors: industry structural factors (including the oligopolistic nature of the iron ore industry and the fragmented nature of the steel industry); demand trends in the steel industry itself and particularly from Chinese steel producers (as the largest group of producers); new laws or regulations; suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers; business continuity of suppliers; expansion projects of suppliers; interruptions in production by suppliers; accidents or other similar events at suppliers’ premises or along the supply chain; wars, natural disasters, political disruption and other similar events; fluctuations in exchange rates; the bargaining power of raw material suppliers; and the availability and cost of transportation. Although ArcelorMittal has substantial sources of iron ore and coal from its own mines and is expanding output at such mines and also has new mines under development, it remains exposed to volatility in the supply and price of iron ore, coking coal and coke as it obtains a significant portion of such raw materials under a portfolio of different term supply contracts (for example, from the Brazilian mining company Vale) to mitigate variations between supply of these input materials and demand from steel mills. Historically, energy prices have varied significantly, and this trend is expected to continue due to market conditions and other factors beyond the control of steel companies. Steel and raw material prices have historically been highly correlated. A drop in raw material prices therefore typically triggers a decrease in steel prices. During the 2008/2009 crisis, both steel and raw materials prices dropped sharply. Another risk is embedded in the timing of the production cycle: rapidly falling steel prices can trigger write-downs of raw material inventory purchased when steel prices were higher, as well as of unsold finished steel products. ArcelorMittal recorded substantial write-downs in 2008/2009 as a result of this. Furthermore, a lack of correlation or a time lag in correlation between raw material and steel prices may also occur and result in a “margin squeeze” in the steel industry. ArcelorMittal experienced such a squeeze in late 2011, for example, when iron ore prices fell over 30% in three weeks in October 2011 and resulted in a significant fall in steel prices while lower raw material prices had yet to feed into the Company’s operating costs. Because ArcelorMittal sources a substantial portion of its raw materials through long term contracts with quarterly (or more frequent) formula-based or negotiated price adjustments and sells a substantial part of its steel products at spot prices, it faces the risk of adverse differentials between its own production costs, which are affected by global raw materials prices, and trends for steel prices in regional markets. Exposure to this risk may change as raw material suppliers move increasingly toward sales on shorter term basis. In 2010, iron ore suppliers moved away from the long-prevailing industry practice of setting prices annually, which had provided a measure of short-term price stability, in favor of a system where prices are set on a quarterly basis. For additional details on ArcelorMittal’s raw materials supply and self-sufficiency, see “Item 4B—Business Overview—Raw Materials and Energy”. Developments in the competitive environment in the steel industry could have an adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s competitive position and hence its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The markets in which steel companies operate are highly competitive. Competition—in the form of established producers expanding in new markets, smaller producers increasing production in anticipation of demand increases, amid an incipient recovery, or exporters selling excess capacity from markets such as China—could cause ArcelorMittal to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Unfair trade practices in ArcelorMittal’s home markets could negatively affect steel prices and reduce ArcelorMittal’s profitability, while trade restrictions could limit ArcelorMittal’s access to key export markets. ArcelorMittal is exposed to the effects of “dumping” and other unfair trade and pricing practices by competitors. Moreover, government subsidization of the steel industry remains widespread in certain countries, particularly those with centrally-controlled economies such as China. As a consequence of the recent global economic crisis, there is an increased risk of unfairly-traded steel exports from such countries into various markets including North America and Europe, in which ArcelorMittal produces and sells its products. Such imports could have the effect of reducing prices and demand for ArcelorMittal products. In addition, ArcelorMittal has significant exposure to the effects of trade actions and barriers due the global nature of its operations. Various countries have in the past instituted, or are currently contemplating the implementation of, trade actions and barriers, which could materially and adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s business by limiting the Company’s access to steel markets. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations”. Competition from other materials could reduce market prices and demand for steel products and thereby reduce ArcelorMittal’s cash flow and profitability. In many applications, steel competes with other materials that may be used as substitutes, such as aluminum (particularly in the automobile industry), cement, composites, glass, plastic and wood. Government regulatory initiatives mandating the use of such materials in lieu of steel, whether for environmental or other reasons, as well as the development of other new substitutes for steel products, could significantly reduce market prices and demand for steel products and thereby reduce ArcelorMittal’s cash flow and profitability. ArcelorMittal is subject to strict environmental laws and regulations that could give rise to a significant increase in costs and liabilities. ArcelorMittal is subject to a broad range of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws and regulations impose increasingly stringent environmental protection standards regarding, among others, air emissions, wastewater storage, treatment and discharges, the use and handling of hazardous or toxic materials, waste disposal practices, and the remediation of environmental contamination. The costs of complying with, and the imposition of liabilities pursuant to, environmental laws and regulations can be significant, and compliance with new and more stringent obligations may require additional capital expenditures or modifications in operating practices. Failure to comply can result in civil and or criminal penalties being imposed, the suspension of permits, requirements to curtail or suspend operations, and lawsuits by third parties. Despite ArcelorMittal’s efforts to comply with environmental laws and regulations, environmental incidents or accidents may occur that negatively affect the Company’s reputation or the operations of key facilities. ArcelorMittal also incurs costs and liabilities associated with the assessment and remediation of contaminated sites. In addition to the impact on current facilities and operations, environmental remediation obligations can give rise to substantial liabilities in respect of divested assets and past activities. This may also be the case for acquisitions when liabilities for past acts or omissions are not adequately reflected in the terms and price of the acquisition. ArcelorMittal could become subject to further remediation obligations in the future, as additional contamination is discovered or cleanup standards become more stringent. Costs and liabilities associated with mining activities include those resulting from tailings and sludge disposal, effluent management, and rehabilitation of land disturbed during mining processes. ArcelorMittal could become subject to unidentified liabilities in the future, such as those relating to uncontrolled tailings breaches or other future events or to underestimated emissions of polluting substances. ArcelorMittal’s operations may be located in areas where individuals or communities may regard its activities as having a detrimental effect on their natural environment and conditions of life. Any actions taken by such individuals or communities in response to such concerns could compromise ArcelorMittal’s profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation or the development of new activities in the relevant region or country. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Environmental Laws and Regulations” and “Item 8A—Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. Laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could force ArcelorMittal to incur increased capital and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with new and more stringent environmental obligations relating to greenhouse gas emissions may require additional capital expenditures or modifications in operating practices, as well as additional reporting obligations. The integrated steel process involves carbon and creates carbon dioxide (CO2), which distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini-mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is primarily linked to energy use. The European Union has established greenhouse gas regulations that may require us to incur additional costs to acquire emissions allowances. The United States required reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from certain large sources beginning in 2011 and has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. Further measures, in the European Union, the United States, and many other countries, may be enacted in the future. In particular, a recently adopted international agreement, the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action, calls for a second phase of the Kyoto Protocol’s greenhouse gas emissions restrictions to be effective through 2020 and for a new international treaty to come into effect and be implemented from 2020. Such obligations, whether in the form of a national or international cap-and-trade emissions permit system, a carbon tax, emissions controls, reporting requirements, or other regulatory initiatives, could have a negative effect on ArcelorMittal’s production levels, income and cash flows. Such regulations could also have a negative effect on the Company’s suppliers and customers, which could result in higher costs and lower sales. Moreover, many developing nations, such as China, India and certain others, have not yet instituted significant greenhouse gas regulations. It is possible that a future international agreement to regulate emissions may provide exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations. In such case, ArcelorMittal may be at a competitive disadvantage relative to steelmakers having more or all of their production in such countries. In addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Environmental Laws and Regulations” and “Item 8A—Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Environmental Liabilities”. ArcelorMittal is subject to stringent health and safety laws and regulations that give rise to significant costs and liabilities. ArcelorMittal is subject to a broad range of health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates. These laws and regulations, as interpreted by relevant agencies and the courts, impose increasingly stringent health and safety protection standards. The costs of complying with, and the imposition of liabilities pursuant to, health and safety laws and regulations could be significant, and failure to comply could result in the assessment of civil and criminal penalties, the suspension of permits or operations, and lawsuits by third parties. Despite ArcelorMittal’s efforts to monitor and reduce accidents at its facilities (see “Item 4B—Business Overview—Government Regulations”), health and safety incidents do occur, some of which may result in costs and liabilities and negatively impact ArcelorMittal’s reputation or the operations of the affected facility. Such accidents could include explosions or gas leaks, fires or collapses in underground mining operations, vehicular accidents, other accidents involving mobile equipment, or exposure to radioactive or other potentially hazardous materials. Some of ArcelorMittal’s industrial activities involve the use, storage and transport of dangerous chemicals and toxic substances, and ArcelorMittal is therefore subject to the risk of industrial accidents which could have significant adverse consequences for the Company’s workers and facilities, as well as the environment. Such accidents could lead to production stoppages, loss of key personnel, the loss of key assets, or put at risk employees (and those of sub-contractors and suppliers) or persons living near affected sites. ArcelorMittal may continue to be exposed to increased operational costs due to the costs and lost time associated with the HIV/AIDS and malaria infection rates within our workforce in Africa and other regions. ArcelorMittal may also be affected by potential outbreaks of flu or other viruses or infectious diseases in any of the regions in which it operates. Under certain circumstances, authorities could require ArcelorMittal facilities to curtail or suspend operations based on health and safety concerns. See “Item 4B—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Environmental Laws and Regulations” and “Item 8A—Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”. Risks Related to ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal has a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could make it more difficult or expensive to refinance its maturing debt, incur new debt and/or flexibly manage its business. As of December 31, 2011, ArcelorMittal had total debt outstanding of $26.4 billion, consisting of $2.8 billion of short-term indebtedness (including payables to banks and the current portion of long-term debt) and $23.6 billion of long-term indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, ArcelorMittal had $3.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents ($3.8 billion) including restricted cash ($0.1 billion), and $8.6 billion available to be drawn under existing credit facilities. Substantial amounts of indebtedness mature in 2012 ($2.8 billion), 2013 ($4.0 billion), 2014 ($3.7 billion) and 2015 ($2.0 billion). See “Item 5B—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. Although the global financial crisis eased during the second half of 2009 and in 2010, conditions in global capital and credit markets have remained volatile and highly uncertain. Conditions worsened in the second half of 2011, due in particular to the Euro-zone sovereign debt crisis and its collateral effects. The markets are particularly volatile and uncertain for companies with high leverage or in sectors that have been adversely affected by the global economic downturn, including steel and other basic material producers. Financial markets could conceivably deteriorate sharply, including in response to significant political or financial news, such as a default or heightened risk of default by a sovereign country in Europe or elsewhere, large credit losses at a systemically important financial institution or the bankruptcy of a large company. As a result, the Company may experience difficulties in accessing the financial markets on acceptable terms. In addition, credit rating agencies could downgrade ArcelorMittal’s ratings (which are currently just above so-called “investment grade” levels, with two credit rating agencies having placed ArcelorMittal’s current credit rating on negative outlook) either due to factors specific to ArcelorMittal, a prolonged cyclical downturn in the steel industry, or macroeconomic trends (such as global or regional recessions) and trends in credit and capital markets more generally. The margin under ArcelorMittal’s principal credit facilities and certain of its bond issuances is subject to adjustment in the event of a change in its long-term credit ratings. Any decline in ArcelorMittal’s credit ratings, including a loss of investment grade status, would result in an increase to its cost of borrowing and could significantly harm its financial condition and results of operations as well as hinder its ability to refinance its existing indebtedness on acceptable terms. Moreover, ArcelorMittal could, in order to increase financial flexibility during a period of reduced availability of credit, implement capital raising measures such as equity offerings or asset disposals, which could in turn create a risk of diluting existing shareholders, the Company receiving relatively low proceeds for the divested assets and/or causing substantial accounting losses (particularly if the divestments are done in difficult market conditions). ArcelorMittal’s principal credit facilities contain restrictive covenants. These covenants limit, inter alia, encumbrances on the assets of ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries, the ability of ArcelorMittal’s subsidiaries to incur debt and the ability of ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries to dispose of assets in certain circumstances. ArcelorMittal’s principal credit facilities also include the following financial covenant: ArcelorMittal must ensure that the “Leverage Ratio”, being the ratio of “Consolidated Total Net Borrowings” (consolidated total borrowings less consolidated cash and cash equivalents) to “Consolidated EBITDA” (the consolidated net pre-taxation profits of the ArcelorMittal group for a Measurement Period, subject to certain adjustments as defined in the facilities), at the end of each “Measurement Period” (each period of 12 months ending on the last day of a financial half-year or a financial year of ArcelorMittal), is not greater than a ratio of 3.5 to one. As of December 31, 2011, the Leverage Ratio stood at approximately 2.2 to one. The restrictive and financial covenants could limit ArcelorMittal’s operating and financial flexibility. Failure to comply with any covenant would enable the lenders to accelerate ArcelorMittal’s repayment obligations. Moreover, ArcelorMittal’s debt facilities have provisions whereby certain events relating to other borrowers within the ArcelorMittal group could, under certain circumstances, lead to acceleration of debt repayment under such credit facilities. Any invocation of these cross-acceleration clauses could cause some or all of the other debt to accelerate, creating liquidity pressures. Furthermore, some of ArcelorMittal’s debt is subject to floating rates of interest and thereby exposes ArcelorMittal to interest rate risk (i.e., if interest rates rise, ArcelorMittal’s debt service obligations on its floating rate indebtedness would increase). Depending on market conditions, ArcelorMittal from time to time uses interest-rate swaps or other financial instruments to hedge a portion of its interest rate exposure either from fixed to floating or floating to fixed. After taking into account interest-rate derivative financial instruments, ArcelorMittal had exposure to 79% of its debt at fixed interest rates and 21% at floating rates as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 5B—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. ArcelorMittal’s growth strategy includes greenfield and brownfield projects that are inherently subject to completion and financing risks. As a part of its future growth strategy, the Company plans to expand its steel-making capacity and raw materials production through a combination of brownfield growth, new greenfield projects and acquisition opportunities, mainly in emerging markets. See “Item 4B—Business Overview—Business Strategy”. To the extent that these plans proceed, these projects would require substantial capital expenditures and their timely completion and successful operation may be affected by factors beyond the control of ArcelorMittal. These factors include receiving financing on reasonable terms, obtaining or renewing required regulatory approvals and licenses, securing and maintaining adequate property rights to land and mineral resources (especially in connection with mining projects in certain developing countries in which security of title with respect to mining concessions and property rights remains weak), local opposition to land acquisition or project development (as experienced, for example, in connection with the Company’s projects in India), demand for the Company’s products and general economic conditions. Any of these factors may cause the Company to delay, modify or forego some or all aspects of its expansion plans. Greenfield projects can also, in addition to general factors, have project-specific factors that increase the level of risk. For example, the Company has acquired (along with a partner) Baffinland Iron Mines Corporation in view of developing the Mary River iron ore deposit in the Arctic Circle. The scale of this project and the location of the deposit raise unique challenges, including extremely harsh weather conditions, lack of transportation infrastructure and environmental concerns. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to execute this project or other projects, and to the extent that they proceed, that it will be able to complete them on schedule, within budget, or achieve an adequate return on its investment. ArcelorMittal’s mining operations are subject to risks associated with mining activities. ArcelorMittal operates mines and has substantially increased the scope of its mining activities in recent years. Mining operations are subject to hazards and risks usually associated with the exploration, development and production of natural resources, any of which could result in production shortfalls or damage to persons or property. In particular, hazards associated with open-pit mining operations include, among others: · flooding of the open pit; · collapse of the open-pit wall; · accidents associated with the operation of large open-pit mining and rock transportation equipment; · accidents associated with the preparation and ignition of large-scale open-pit blasting operations; · production disruptions due to weather; and · hazards associated with the disposal of mineralized waste water, such as groundwater and waterway contamination; Hazards associated with underground mining operations, of which ArcelorMittal has several, include, among others: · underground fires and explosions, including those caused by flammable gas; · gas and coal outbursts; · cave-ins or falls of ground; · discharges of gases and toxic chemicals; · flooding; · sinkhole formation and ground subsidence; · other accidents and conditions resulting from drilling; · difficulties associated with mining in extreme weather conditions, such as the Arctic; and · blasting, removing, and processing material from an underground mine. ArcelorMittal is exposed to all of these hazards. For example, in the past two years, there have been methane gas explosions at the Kuzembaev Mine in Kazakhstan, in development roadways of unpredictable geology, resulting in four fatalities and an extended disruption of operations. The reoccurrence of any of these events, or the occurrence of any of those listed above, could delay production, increase production costs and result in death or injury to persons, damage to property and liability for ArcelorMittal, some or all of which may not be covered by insurance, as well as substantially harm ArcelorMittal’s reputation as a company focused on ensuring the health and safety of its employees. ArcelorMittal’s reserve estimates may materially differ from mineral quantities that it may be able to actually recover; ArcelorMittal’s estimates of mine life may prove inaccurate; and market price fluctuations and changes in operating and capital costs may render certain ore reserves uneconomical to mine. ArcelorMittal’s reported reserves are estimated quantities of ore and metallurgical coal that it has determined can be economically mined and processed under present and anticipated conditions to extract their mineral content. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and in projecting potential future rates of mineral production, including factors beyond ArcelorMittal’s control. Reserve engineering involves estimating deposits of minerals that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, no assurance can be given that the indicated amount of ore or coal will be recovered or that it will be recovered at the anticipated rates. Estimates may vary, and results of mining and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may lead to revisions of estimates. Reserve estimates and estimates of mine life may require revisions based on actual production experience and other factors. For example, fluctuations in the market prices of minerals and metals, reduced recovery rates or increased operating and capital costs due to inflation, exchange rates, mining duties or other factors may render proven and probable reserves uneconomic to exploit and may ultimately result in a restatement of reserves. Drilling and production risks could adversely affect the mining process. Substantial time and expenditures are required to: · establish mineral reserves through drilling; · determine appropriate mining and metallurgical processes for optimizing the recovery of metal contained in ore and coal; · obtain environmental and other licenses; · construct mining, processing facilities and infrastructure required for greenfield properties; and · obtain the ore or coal or extract the minerals from the ore or coal. If a project proves not to be economically feasible by the time ArcelorMittal is able to exploit it, ArcelorMittal may incur substantial losses and be obliged to recognize impairments. In addition, potential changes or complications involving metallurgical and other technological processes arising during the life of a project may result in delays and cost overruns that may render the project not economically feasible. ArcelorMittal faces rising extraction costs over time as reserves deplete. Reserves are gradually depleted in the ordinary course of a given mining operation. As mining progresses, distances to the primary crusher and to waste deposits become longer, pits become steeper and underground operations become deeper. As a result, over time, ArcelorMittal usually experiences rising unit extraction costs with respect to each mine. ArcelorMittal has grown through acquisitions and will likely continue to do so. Failure to manage external growth and difficulties integrating acquired companies and subsequently implementing steel and mining development projects could harm ArcelorMittal’s future results of operations, financial condition and prospects. ArcelorMittal results from Mittal Steel Company N.V.’s 2006 acquisition of, and 2007 merger with, Arcelor, a company of approximately equivalent size. Arcelor itself resulted from the combination of three steel companies, and Mittal Steel had previously grown through numerous acquisitions over many years. ArcelorMittal made numerous acquisitions in 2007 and 2008. While the Company’s large-scale M&A activity has been less extensive since the 2008 financial crisis, it could make substantial acquisitions at any time. The Company’s past growth through acquisitions has entailed significant investment and increased operating costs, as well as requiring greater allocation of management resources away from daily operations. Managing growth has required the continued development of ArcelorMittal’s financial and management information control systems, the integration of acquired assets with existing operations, the adoption of manufacturing best practices, attracting and retaining qualified management and personnel (particularly to work at more remote sites where there is a shortage of skilled personnel) as well as the continued training and supervision of such personnel, and the ability to manage the risks and liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. Failure to continue to manage such growth could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. In particular, if integration of acquisitions is not successful, ArcelorMittal could lose key personnel and key customers, and may not be able to retain or expand its market position. A Mittal family trust has the ability to exercise significant influence over the outcome of shareholder votes. As of December 31, 2011, a trust (HSBC Trust (C.I.) Limited, as trustee), of which Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal, Mrs. Usha Mittal and their children are the beneficiaries, beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) 637,338,263 of ArcelorMittal’s outstanding common shares, representing approximately 41.15% of ArcelorMittal’s outstanding voting shares. The trust has the ability to significantly influence the decisions adopted at the ArcelorMittal general meetings of shareholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, issuances of equity and the incurrence of indebtedness. The trust also has the ability to significantly influence a change of control of ArcelorMittal. The loss or diminution of the services of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal could have an adverse effect on its business and prospects. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal, Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal, has for over a quarter of a century contributed significantly to shaping and implementing the business strategy of Mittal Steel and subsequently ArcelorMittal. His strategic vision was instrumental in the creation of the world’s largest and most global steel group. The loss or any diminution of the services of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer could have an adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business and prospects. ArcelorMittal does not maintain key person life insurance on its Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. ArcelorMittal is a holding company that depends on the earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries, which may not be sufficient to meet future operational needs or for shareholder distributions. Because ArcelorMittal is a holding company, it is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends and distributions from, its operating subsidiaries to pay expenses, meet its debt service obligations, pay any cash dividends or distributions on its common shares or conduct share buy-backs. Significant cash or cash equivalent balances may be held from time to time at the Company’s international operating subsidiaries, including in particular those in France, where the Company maintains a cash management system under which most of its cash and cash equivalents are centralized, and in Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, Kazakhstan, Morocco, South Africa, Ukraine and Venezuela. Some of these operating subsidiaries have debt outstanding or are subject to acquisition agreements that impose restrictions on such operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, but such restrictions are not significant in the context of ArcelorMittal’s overall liquidity. Repatriation of funds from operating subsidiaries may also be affected by tax and foreign exchange policies in place from time to time in the various countries where the Company operates, though none of these policies are currently significant in the context of ArcelorMittal’s overall liquidity. Under the laws of Luxembourg, ArcelorMittal will be able to pay dividends or distributions only to the extent that it is entitled to receive cash dividend distributions from its subsidiaries, recognize gains from the sale of its assets or record share premium from the issuance of shares. If earnings and cash flows of its operating subsidiaries are substantially reduced, ArcelorMittal may not be in a position to meet its operational needs or to make shareholder distributions in line with announced proposals. Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value of certain assets, including as a result of adverse market conditions, could result in impairment of such assets, including intangible assets such as goodwill. At each reporting date, ArcelorMittal reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets (excluding goodwill, which is reviewed annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable) to determine whether there is any indication that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable through continuing use. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset (or cash generating unit) is reviewed in order to determine the amount of the impairment, if any. The recoverable amount is the higher of its net selling price (fair value reduced by selling costs) and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset (or cash generating unit). If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. An impairment loss is recognized as an expense immediately as part of operating income in the consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts ArcelorMittal paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. Goodwill has been allocated at the level of the Company’s eight operating segments; the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the levels of the groups of cash generating units which correspond to the operating segments as of November 30, or when changes in the circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amounts of the groups of cash generating units are determined from the higher of its net selling price (fair value reduced by selling costs) or its value in use calculations, which depend on certain key assumptions. These include assumptions regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market rates for investments of similar risk. The growth rates are based on the Company’s growth forecasts, which are in line with industry trends. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on historical experience and expectations of future changes in the market. See Notes 2 and 9 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. If management’s estimates change, the estimate of the recoverable amount of goodwill or the asset could fall significantly and result in impairment. While impairment does not affect reported cash flows, the decrease of the estimated recoverable amount and the related non-cash charge in the consolidated statements of operations could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s results of operations or financial position. Based on its impairment review in connection with the preparation of its 2011 financial statements, the Company did not record any impairment of goodwill at December 31, 2011. Management believes, however, that reasonably possible changes in key assumptions used in assessing value in use would cause an impairment loss to be recognized with respect to the Company’s Flat Carbon Europe and Distribution Solutions segments, which account for approximately $2.9 billion and $1.0 billion of goodwill, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the Company had $12.5 billion of goodwill and $1.6 billion of other intangibles, compared to $12.6 billion of goodwill and $1.8 billion of other intangibles at December 31, 2010. See Note 9 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company recorded a net impairment loss related to its property, plant and equipment amounting to $331 million. No assurance can be given as to the absence of significant further impairment losses in future periods, particularly if market conditions deteriorate again as they did in 2008-2009. Capital expenditure commitments and other undertakings arising from acquisitions and investments may limit ArcelorMittal’s operational flexibility, add to its financing requirements and adversely affect its results of operations and prospects. In connection with the acquisition of certain operating subsidiaries and other investments, ArcelorMittal has committed itself to significant capital expenditures and other undertakings. See “Item 5F—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations” and Note 22 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. ArcelorMittal expects to fund these commitments primarily through internal sources, which may be limited depending on the Company’s results of operations, financing capacity and other uses of cash, such as dividends and maintenance expenditure. As a result, the Company is unable to guarantee that these projects will be completed on time or at all. Failure to comply with commitments in connection with past growth projects may result in forfeiture of a part of ArcelorMittal’s investment, the loss of tax and regulatory benefits, and/or contractual disputes that could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s financial condition or results of operations. See “Item 4A—History and Development of the Company—Updates on Previously Announced Investment Projects”. Underfunding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans at some of ArcelorMittal’s operating subsidiaries could require the Company to make substantial cash contributions to pension plans or to pay for employee healthcare, which may reduce the cash available for ArcelorMittal’s business. ArcelorMittal’s principal operating subsidiaries in Brazil, Canada, Europe, South Africa and the United States provide defined benefit pension plans to their employees. Some of these plans are currently underfunded. At December 31, 2011, the value of ArcelorMittal USA’s pension plan assets was $2.2 billion, while the projected benefit obligation was $3.8 billion, resulting in a deficit of $1.6 billion. At December 31, 2011, the value of the pension plan assets of ArcelorMittal’s Canadian subsidiaries was $2.9 billion, while the projected benefit obligation was $3.5 billion, resulting in a deficit of $0.6 billion. At December 31, 2011, the value of the pension plan assets of ArcelorMittal’s European subsidiaries was $0.6 billion, while the projected benefit obligation was $2.1 billion, resulting in a deficit of $1.5 billion. ArcelorMittal USA, ArcelorMittal’s Canadian subsidiaries, and ArcelorMittal’s European subsidiaries also had partially underfunded post-employment benefit obligations relating to life insurance and medical benefits as of December 31, 2011. The consolidated obligations totaled $6.6 billion as of December 31, 2011, while underlying plan assets were only $0.5 billion, resulting in a deficit of $6.1 billion. See Note 23 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. ArcelorMittal’s funding obligations depend upon future asset performance, which is tied to equity markets to a substantial extent, the level of interest rates used to discount future liabilities, actuarial assumptions and experience, benefit plan changes and government regulation. Because of the large number of variables that determine pension funding requirements, which are difficult to predict, as well as any legislative action, future cash funding requirements for ArcelorMittal’s pension plans and other post-employment benefit plans could be significantly higher than current estimates. In these circumstances funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal could experience labor disputes that may disrupt its operations and its relationships with its customers. A majority of the employees of ArcelorMittal and of its contractors are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation (see “Item 6D—Employees”). Strikes or work stoppages could occur prior to, or during, the negotiations preceding new collective bargaining agreements, during wage and benefits negotiations or during other periods for other reasons. ArcelorMittal periodically experiences strikes and work stoppages at various facilities. Prolonged strikes or work stoppages, which may increase in their severity and frequency, may have an adverse effect on the operations and financial results of ArcelorMittal. ArcelorMittal is subject to economic policy risks and political, social and legal uncertainties in certain of the emerging markets in which it operates or proposes to operate, and these uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal operates, or proposes to operate, in a large number of emerging markets. In recent years, many of these countries have implemented measures aimed at improving the business environment and providing a stable platform for economic development. ArcelorMittal’s business strategy has been developed partly on the assumption that this modernization, restructuring and upgrading of the business climate and physical infrastructure will continue, but this cannot be guaranteed. Any slowdown in the development of these economies could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects, as could insufficient investment by government agencies or the private sector in physical infrastructure. For example, the failure of a country to develop reliable electricity and natural gas supplies and networks, and any resulting shortages or rationing, could lead to disruptions in ArcelorMittal’s production. Moreover, some of the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates have been undergoing substantial political transformations from centrally-controlled command economies to market-oriented systems or from authoritarian regimes to democratically-elected governments and vice-versa. Political, economic and legal reforms necessary to complete such transformation may not progress sufficiently. On occasion, ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions have given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, wide-scale civil disturbances and military conflict. The political systems in these countries are vulnerable to their populations’ dissatisfaction with their government, reforms or the lack thereof, social and ethnic unrest and changes in governmental policies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and its ability to continue to do business in these countries. In addition, the legal systems in some of the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates remain less than fully developed, particularly with respect to property rights, the protection of foreign investment and bankruptcy proceedings, generally resulting in a lower level of legal certainty or security for foreign investment than in more developed countries. ArcelorMittal may encounter difficulties in enforcing court judgments or arbitral awards in some countries in which it operates among other reasons because those countries may not be parties to treaties that recognize the mutual enforcement of court judgments. Assets in certain countries where ArcelorMittal operates could also be at risk of expropriation or nationalization, and compensation for such assets may be below fair value. For example, the Venezuelan government has implemented a number of selective nationalizations of companies operating in the country to date. Although ArcelorMittal believes that the long-term growth potential in emerging markets is strong, and intends them to be the focus of the majority of its near-term growth capital expenditures, legal obstacles could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of ArcelorMittal’s growth plans and its operations in such countries. ArcelorMittal’s results of operations could be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, particularly the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate, as well as by exchange controls imposed by governmental authorities in the countries where it operates. ArcelorMittal operates and sells products globally, and, as a result, its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. A substantial portion of ArcelorMittal’s assets, liabilities, operating costs, sales and earnings are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (ArcelorMittal’s reporting currency). Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates to the U.S. dollar, could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal operates in several countries whose currencies are, or have in the past been, subject to limitations imposed by those countries’ central banks, or which have experienced sudden and significant devaluations. Currency devaluations, the imposition of new exchange controls or other similar restrictions on currency convertibility, or the tightening of existing controls, in the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. See “Item 4B—Business Overview—Government Regulations—Foreign Exchange”. Disruptions to ArcelorMittal’s manufacturing processes could adversely affect its operations, customer service levels and financial results. Steel manufacturing processes are dependent on critical steel-making equipment, such as furnaces, continuous casters, rolling mills and electrical equipment (such as transformers), and such equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, such as fires or furnace breakdowns. ArcelorMittal’s manufacturing plants have experienced, and may in the future experience, plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. To the extent that lost production as a result of such a disruption could not be compensated for by unaffected facilities, such disruptions could have an adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s operations, customer service levels and financial results. Natural disasters could damage ArcelorMittal’s production facilities. Natural disasters could significantly damage ArcelorMittal’s production facilities and general infrastructure. For example, ArcelorMittal Lázaro Cárdenas’s production facilities located in Lázaro Cárdenas, Michoacán, Mexico and ArcelorMittal Galati’s production facilities located in the Botasani region of Romania are located in regions prone to earthquakes of varying magnitudes. The Lázaro Cárdenas area has, in addition, been subject to a number of tsunamis in the past. ArcelorMittal Point Lisas is located in Trinidad & Tobago, an area vulnerable to both hurricanes and earthquakes. The ArcelorMittal wire drawing operations in the United States are located in an area subject to tornados. Although risk mitigation efforts have been incorporated in plant design and operations, extensive damage in the event of a tornado cannot be excluded. Extensive damage to the foregoing facilities or any of our other major production complexes and potential resulting staff casualties, whether as a result of floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis or other natural disasters, could, to the extent that lost production could not be compensated for by unaffected facilities, severely affect ArcelorMittal’s ability to conduct its business operations and, as a result, reduce its future operating results. ArcelorMittal’s insurance policies provide limited coverage, potentially leaving it uninsured against some business risks. The occurrence of an event that is uninsurable or not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. ArcelorMittal maintains insurance on property and equipment and product liability insurance in amounts believed to be consistent with industry practices but it is not fully insured against all such risks. ArcelorMittal’s insurance policies cover physical loss or damage to its property and equipment on a reinstatement basis arising from a number of specified risks and certain consequential losses, including business interruption arising from the occurrence of an insured event under the policies. Under ArcelorMittal’s property and equipment policies, damages and losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and windstorms, are also covered. ArcelorMittal also maintains various other types of insurance, such as directors and officers’ liability insurance, workmen’s compensation insurance and marine insurance. In addition, ArcelorMittal maintains trade credit insurance on receivables from selected customers, subject to limits that it believes are consistent with those in the industry, in order to protect it against the risk of non-payment due to customers’ insolvency or other causes. Not all of ArcelorMittal’s customers are or can be insured, and even when insurance is available, it may not fully cover the exposure. Notwithstanding the insurance coverage that ArcelorMittal and its subsidiaries carry, the occurrence of an event that causes losses in excess of limits specified under the relevant policy, or losses arising from events not covered by insurance policies, could materially harm ArcelorMittal’s financial condition and future operating results. Product liability claims could have a significant adverse financial impact on ArcelorMittal. ArcelorMittal sells products to major manufacturers engaged in manufacturing and selling a wide range of end products. ArcelorMittal also from time to time offers advice to these manufacturers. Furthermore, ArcelorMittal’s products are also sold to, and used in, certain safety-critical applications, such as, for example, pipes used in gas or oil pipelines and in automotive applications. There could be significant consequential damages resulting from the use of or defects in such products. ArcelorMittal has a limited amount of product liability insurance coverage, and a major claim for damages related to ArcelorMittal products sold and, as the case may be, advice given in connection with such products could leave ArcelorMittal uninsured against a portion or the entirety of the award and, as a result, materially harm its financial condition and future operating results. ArcelorMittal is subject to regulatory risk, and may incur liabilities arising from investigations by governmental authorities, litigation and fines, among others, regarding its pricing and marketing practices or other antitrust matters. ArcelorMittal is the largest steel producer in the world. As a result of this position, ArcelorMittal may be subject to exacting scrutiny from regulatory authorities and private parties, particularly regarding its trade practices and dealings with customers and counterparties. As a result of its position in the steel markets and its historically acquisitive growth strategy, ArcelorMittal could be the target of governmental investigations and lawsuits based on antitrust laws in particular. These could require significant expenditures and result in liabilities or governmental orders that could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. ArcelorMittal and certain of its subsidiaries are currently under investigation by governmental entities in several countries, and are named as defendants in a number of lawsuits relating to various antitrust matters. For example, in September 2008, Standard Iron Works filed a class action complaint in U.S. federal court against ArcelorMittal, ArcelorMittal USA LLC and other steel manufacturers, alleging that the defendants had conspired since 2005 to restrict the output of steel products in order to affect steel prices. Since the filing of the Standard Iron Works lawsuit, other similar direct purchaser lawsuits have been filed in the same court and consolidated with the Standard Iron Works law suit. In addition, class actions on behalf of indirect purchasers have been filed. A motion by ArcelorMittal and the other defendants to dismiss the direct purchaser claims was denied in June 2009, and the litigation is now in the discovery stage. Antitrust proceedings and investigations involving ArcelorMittal subsidiaries are also currently pending in Brazil and South Africa. See “Item 8A—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Legal Claims—Competition/Antitrust Claims”. Because of the fact-intensive nature of the issues involved and the inherent uncertainty of such litigation and investigations, negative outcomes are possible. An adverse ruling in the proceedings described above or in other similar proceedings in the future could subject ArcelorMittal to substantial administrative penalties and/or civil damages. In cases relating to other companies, civil damages have ranged as high as hundreds of millions of U.S. dollars in major civil antitrust proceedings during the last decade. With respect to the pending U.S. federal court litigation, ArcelorMittal could be subject to treble damages. Unfavorable outcomes in current and potential future litigation and investigations could reduce ArcelorMittal’s liquidity and negatively affect its financial performance and its financial condition. ArcelorMittal’s governance and compliance processes may fail to prevent regulatory penalties and reputational harm, both at operating subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. ArcelorMittal operates in a global environment, and its activities straddle multiple jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks, at a time of increased enforcement activity and enforcement initiatives worldwide. ArcelorMittal’s governance and compliance processes, which include the review of internal controls over financial reporting, may not prevent breaches of law, accounting or governance standards at the Company or its subsidiaries. Risks of violations are also present at the Company’s joint ventures and associates where ArcelorMittal has only a non-controlling stake and does not control governance practices or accounting and reporting procedures. In addition, ArcelorMittal may be subject to breaches of its Code of Business Conduct, other rules and protocols for the conduct of business, as well as instances of fraudulent behavior and dishonesty by its employees, contractors or other agents. The Company’s failure to comply with applicable laws and other standards could subject it to fines, litigation, loss of operating licenses and reputational harm. The income tax liability of ArcelorMittal may substantially increase if the tax laws and regulations in countries in which it operates change or become subject to adverse interpretations or inconsistent enforcement. Taxes payable by companies in many of the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates are substantial and include value-added tax, excise duties, profit taxes, payroll-related taxes, property taxes and other taxes. Tax laws and regulations in some of these countries may be subject to frequent change, varying interpretation and inconsistent enforcement. Ineffective tax collection systems and national or local government budget requirements may increase the likelihood of the imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the usual tax burden imposed on taxpayers, these conditions create uncertainty as to the tax implications of various business decisions. This uncertainty could expose ArcelorMittal to significant fines and penalties and to enforcement measures despite its best efforts at compliance, and could result in a greater than expected tax burden. See Note 19 to ArcelorMittal’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, many of the jurisdictions in which ArcelorMittal operates have adopted transfer pricing legislation. If tax authorities impose significant additional tax liabilities as a result of transfer pricing adjustments, it could have a material adverse effect on ArcelorMittal’s financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that tax authorities in the countries in which ArcelorMittal operates will introduce additional revenue raising measures. The introduction of any such provisions may affect the overall tax efficiency of ArcelorMittal and may result in significant additional taxes becoming payable. Any such additional tax exposure could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. ArcelorMittal may face a significant increase in its income taxes if tax rates increase or the tax laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, or treaties between those jurisdictions, are modified in an adverse manner. This may adversely affect ArcelorMittal’s cash flows, liquidity and ability to pay dividends. If ArcelorMittal were unable to utilize fully its deferred tax assets, its profitability could be reduced. At December 31, 2011, ArcelorMittal had $6.1 billion recorded as deferred tax assets on its consolidated statements of financial position. These assets can be utilized only if, and only to the extent that, ArcelorMittal’s operating subsidiaries generate adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss carry forwards and reverse the temporary differences prior to expiration. At December 31, 2011, the amount of future income required to recover ArcelorMittal’s deferred tax assets of $6.1 billion was at least $21 billion at certain operating subsidiaries. ArcelorMittal’s ability to generate taxable income is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. If ArcelorMittal generates lower taxable income than the amount it has assumed in determining its deferred tax assets, then the value of deferred tax assets will be reduced. In addition, changes in tax law may result in a reduction in the value of deferred tax assets, as occurred in 2011. ArcelorMittal’s reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result of data breaches, data theft, unauthorized access or successful hacking. ArcelorMittal’s operations depend on the secure and reliable performance of its information technology systems. An increasing number of companies, including ArcelorMittal, have recently experienced intrusion attempts or even breaches of their information technology security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on their computer networks. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement in a timely manner effective and efficient countermeasures. If unauthorized parties force access to ArcelorMittal’s information technology systems, they may be able to misappropriate confidential information, cause interruptions in the Company’s operations, damage its computers or otherwise damage its reputation and business. In such circumstances, the Company could be held liable or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching confidentiality and personal data protection rules. Any compromise of the Company’s security could result in a loss of confidence in its security measures and subject it to litigation, civil or criminal penalties, and adverse publicity that could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against ArcelorMittal and its directors and senior management. ArcelorMittal is incorporated under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with its principal executive offices and corporate headquarters in Luxembourg. The majority of ArcelorMittal’s directors and senior management are residents of jurisdictions outside of the United States. The majority of ArcelorMittal’s assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, U.S. investors may find it difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon ArcelorMittal or these persons or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against ArcelorMittal or these persons in U.S. courts, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Likewise, it may also be difficult for an investor to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against ArcelorMittal or these persons in courts in jurisdictions outside the United States, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. It may also be difficult for a U.S. investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against ArcelorMittal’s directors and senior management and non-U.S. experts named in this annual report. 