Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements contained in this section, as well as statements described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other SEC filings, describe risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our securities. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred net losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur net losses in the future and may never reach profitability. Our net losses in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $6.8 million, $36.7 million and $23.6 million, respectively. We have not achieved profitability for any calendar year, although we have for certain quarters, and we may continue to incur operating losses in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $77.3 million. Initially, our operating losses were principally driven by start-up costs and the costs of developing our technology, which included research and development expenses. More recently, our net losses have been principally driven by selling and marketing expenses, and general and administrative expenses, including, without limitation, expenses related to increased headcount and the expansion of the number of MW under our management. Although we currently expect to be profitable for the year ending December 31, 2010, as we seek to grow our revenues and customer base, we plan to continue to expand our demand response and energy management solutions, which will require increased operating expenses. These increased operating costs, as well as other factors, may cause us to incur net losses for the foreseeable future, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our revenues, sustain the growth rate of our revenues, expand our customer base, become profitable in 2010 or maintain profitability in any future years. Furthermore, these expenses are not the only factors that may contribute to our net losses. As a result, even if we significantly increase our revenues, we may continue to incur net losses in the future. If we fail to achieve profitability, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. We have a limited operating history in an emerging market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects, and may expose us to increased risks and uncertainties. We began operating as a New Hampshire limited liability company in December 2001 and were incorporated as a Delaware corporation in June 2003. We first began generating revenues in 2003. Accordingly, we have only a limited history of generating revenues, and the future revenue potential of our business in the emerging market for clean and intelligent energy solutions is uncertain. As a result of our short operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business, strategies, performance and prospects or an investment in our common stock. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of our limited operating history and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in an emerging market. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following: •maintain our current relationships and develop new relationships with grid operators and utilities and the entities that regulate them; •maintain and expand our current relationships and develop new relationships with commercial, institutional and industrial customers; •maintain and enhance our existing demand response and energy management solutions, and technology systems; 23 Table of Contents •continue to develop clean and intelligent energy solutions that achieve significant market acceptance; •continue to enhance our information processing systems; •execute our business and marketing strategies successfully, including accurately nominating demand response capacity to our grid operator and utility customers, and delivering a high level of performance by assisting our end-use customers to reduce their energy usage during demand response events; •respond to competitive developments; •attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and •continue to participate in shaping the regulatory environment. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, accomplishing many of these goals might be very expensive, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Any predictions about our future operating results may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history and if the market in which we operate was more mature. A substantial majority of our revenues are and have been generated from contracts with, and open market program sales to, a small number of grid operator and utility customers, and the modification or termination of these open market programs or sales relationships could materially adversely affect our business. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, revenues generated from open market sales to PJM, a grid operator customer, accounted for 4%, 28% and 52%, respectively, of our total revenues. The PJM forward capacity market is a market in which we materially increased our participation beginning in the first quarter of 2008 and in which we expect to continue to increase our participation and derive revenues for the foreseeable future. The modification or termination of our sales relationship with PJM, or the modification or termination of any of PJM's open market programs in which we participate, could significantly reduce our future revenues and profit margins, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and delay or prevent our future profitability. For example, beginning in June 2012, PJM will discontinue its Interruptible Load for Reliability program, or the ILR program, which is a program in which we have historically been an active participant. The discontinuance of the ILR program by PJM will reduce the flexibility that we currently have to manage our portfolio of demand response capacity in the PJM market and will likely negatively impact our future revenues and profit margins. Revenues generated from two fixed price contracts with, and open market sales to ISO-NE, a grid operator customer, accounted for 60%, 36% and 29%, respectively, of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Our fixed price contracts with ISO-NE expired on May 31, 2008. We have enrolled a significant portion of the MW represented by our expired fixed price contracts with ISO-NE in other available demand response programs. The modification or termination of our sales relationship with ISO-NE, or the modification or termination of any of ISO-NE's open market programs in which we participate, could significantly reduce our future revenues, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and delay or prevent our future profitability. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain favorable prices in the open market programs in which we currently participate or participate in the future, our revenues and profit margins could be negatively impacted. In open market programs, grid operators and utilities generally seek bids from companies such as ours to provide demand response capacity based on prices offered in competitive bidding. These prices may be subject to volatility due to certain market conditions or other events, and as a result the prices offered to us for this demand response capacity may be significantly lower than historical prices. For example, recent open market auctions of capacity in the PJM and ISO-NE markets in which we participate have achieved prices that have been significantly lower than those achieved in prior periods. Accordingly, our revenues, gross profits and profit margins will be adversely affected to the extent such lower pricing continues or to the extent we face new price reductions, specifically in 2011 as the lower prices in the PJM market take effect for that year. We also may be subject to reduced capacity prices or be unable to participate in certain open market programs for a period of time to the extent that our bidding strategy fails to produce favorable results. In addition, adverse changes in the general economic and market conditions in the United States may result in a reduced demand for electricity, resulting in lower prices for capacity, both demand-side and supply-side, for the foreseeable future, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our operating expenses and cost of sales do not correspond with the timing of our revenues. Most of our operating expenses, such as employee compensation and rental expense for properties, are either relatively fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of sales. Moreover, our spending levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, if revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. For example, if a demand response event or metering and verification test does not occur in a particular quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenues for the undemonstrated capacity in that quarter. This shortfall in revenues could adversely affect our operating results for that quarter and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. We incur significant up-front costs associated with the expansion of the number of MW under our management and the infrastructure necessary to enable those MW. In most of the markets in which we originally focused our growth, we generally begin earning revenues from our MW under management within approximately one month from enablement of those MW. However, in certain forward capacity markets in which we choose to participate, it may take longer for us to begin earning revenues from MW that we enable, in some cases up to a year after enablement. For example, the PJM forward capacity market, which is a market in which we materially increased our participation beginning in the first quarter of 2008 and in which we expect to continue to increase our participation and derive revenues, operates on a June to May program-year basis, which means that a MW that we enable after June of each year will typically not begin earning revenue until June of the following year. This results in a longer average revenue recognition lag time in our end-use customer portfolio from the point in time when we consider a MW to be under management to when we earn revenues from those MW. The up-front costs we incur to expand our MW under management in PJM and other similar markets, coupled with the delay in receiving revenues from those MW, could adversely affect our operating results and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. We operate in highly competitive markets; if we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenues. The market for clean and intelligent energy solutions is fragmented. Some traditional providers of advanced metering solutions have added, or may add, demand response services to their existing business. We face strong competition from clean and intelligent energy solutions providers, both larger and smaller than we are. We also compete against traditional supply-side resources such as natural 25 Table of Contents gas-fired peaking power plants. In addition, utilities and competitive electricity suppliers offer their own demand response solutions, which could decrease our base of potential customers and revenues and could delay or prevent our future profitability. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Our competitors could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competing business model or develop products or services that are more attractive to potential customers than what we offer. Some advanced metering infrastructure service providers, for example, are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the ability to combine advanced metering and demand response solutions into an integrated offering to a large, existing customer base. Our competitors may offer clean and intelligent energy solutions at prices below cost or even for free in order to improve their competitive positions. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete, and reduce our market share and revenues, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may also face competition based on technological developments that reduce peak demand for electricity, increase power supplies through existing infrastructure or that otherwise compete with our demand response and energy management solutions. If we fail to successfully educate existing and potential grid operator and utility customers regarding the benefits of our demand response and energy management solutions or a market otherwise fails to develop for those solutions, our ability to sell our solutions and grow our business could be limited. Our future success depends on commercial acceptance of our clean and intelligent energy solutions and our ability to enter into additional contracts and new open market bidding programs. We anticipate that revenues related to our demand response solutions will constitute a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The market for clean and intelligent energy solutions in general is relatively new. If we are unable to educate our potential customers about the advantages of our solutions over competing products and services, or our existing customers no longer rely on our demand response solutions, our ability to sell our solutions will be limited. In addition, because the clean and intelligent energy solutions sector is rapidly evolving, we cannot accurately assess the size of the market, and we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. For example, we may have difficulty predicting customer needs and developing clean and intelligent energy solutions that address those needs. Further, we are subject to the risk that the current global economic and market conditions will result in lower overall demand for electricity in the United States and other markets that we are seeking to penetrate over the next few years. Such a reduction in the demand for electricity could create a corresponding reduction in both supply- and demand-side resources being implemented by grid operators and utilities. If the market for our demand response and our energy management solutions does not continue to develop, our ability to grow our business could be limited and we may not be able to achieve profitability. If the actual amount of demand response capacity that we make available under our capacity commitments is less than required, our committed capacity could be reduced and we could be required to make refunds or pay penalty fees, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We provide demand response capacity to our grid operator and utility customers either under fixed price long-term contracts, or under terms established in open market bidding programs where capacity is purchased. Under the long-term contracts and open market bidding programs, grid operators and utilities make periodic payments to us based on the amount of demand response capacity that we are obligated to make available to them during the contract period, or make periodic payments to us based on the amount of demand response capacity that we bid to make available to them during the relevant period. We refer to these payments as committed capacity payments. Committed capacity is negotiated and established by the contract or set in the open market bidding process and is subject to subsequent 26 Table of Contents confirmation by measurement and verification tests or performance in a demand response event. In our open market bidding programs, we offer different amounts of committed capacity to our grid operator and utility customers based on market rules on a periodic basis. We refer to measured and verified capacity as our demonstrated or proven capacity. Once demonstrated, the proven capacity amounts typically establish a baseline of capacity for each end-use customer site in our portfolio, on which committed capacity payments are calculated going forward and until the next demand response event or measurement and verification test when we are called to make capacity available. Under some of our contracts and in certain open market bidding programs, any difference between our demonstrated capacity and the committed capacity on which capacity payments were previously made will result in either a refund payment from us to our grid operator or utility customer or an additional payment to us by such customer. Any refund payable by us would reduce our deferred revenues, but would not impact our previously recognized revenues. If there is a refund payment due to a grid operator or utility customer, we generally make a corresponding adjustment in our payments to the end-use customer or customers who failed to make the appropriate level of capacity available, however we are sometimes unable to do so. In addition, some of our contracts with, and open market programs established by, our grid operator and utility customers provide for penalty payments, which can be substantial, in certain circumstances in which we do not meet our capacity commitments, either in measurement and verification tests or in demand response events. Further, because measurement and verification test results for some capacity contracts and in certain open market bidding programs establish capacity levels on which payments will be made until the next test or demand response event, the payments to be made to us under such capacity contracts and open market bidding programs would be reduced until the level of capacity is established at the next test or demand response event. We could experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results in future periods due to refund payments, penalties, capacity payment adjustments, replacement costs or other payments, which could be substantial. We incurred aggregate net penalty payments of $168,719, $82,639 and $152,913 during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our ability to achieve our committed capacity depends on the performance of our commercial, institutional and industrial customers, and the failure of these customers to make the appropriate levels of capacity available when called upon would cause us to make refunds to, or incur penalties imposed by, our grid operator and utility customers. The capacity level that we are able to achieve is dependent upon the ability of our commercial, institutional and industrial customers to curtail their energy usage when called upon by us during a demand response event or a measurement and verification test. Certain demand response programs in which we currently participate or choose to participate in the future may have rigorous requirements, making it difficult for our end-use customers to perform when called upon by us. For example, the market rules applicable to ISO-NE's forward capacity market, which go into effect beginning with the 2010/2011 capacity commitment period, are rigorous and may result in the failure by some of our end-use customers to make the appropriate levels of capacity available. In addition, if PJM dispatches a measurement and verification test and our end-use customers fail to perform or perform in a deficient manner, we may be subject to substantial penalties given that we have enrolled a significant number of MW in the PJM demand response market. In the event that our end-use customers are unable to perform or perform at levels below which they agreed to perform, we may be unable to achieve our committed capacity levels and may be subject to the refunds or penalties described in the risk factor above, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The capacity level that we are able to achieve also varies with the electricity demand of targeted equipment, such as heating and cooling equipment, at the time an end-use customer is called to perform. Accordingly, our ability to deliver committed capacity depends on factors beyond our control, such as the temperature and humidity, and then-current electricity use by our end-use customers when 27 Table of Contents such end-use customers are called to perform. The correct operation of, and timely communication with, devices used to control equipment are also important factors that affect available capacity. Our business is subject to government regulation, and may become subject to modified or new government regulation, which may negatively impact our ability to sell and market our clean and intelligent energy solutions. While the electric power markets in which we operate are regulated, most of our business is not directly subject to the regulatory framework applicable to the generation and transmission of electricity. However, we may become directly subject to the regulation of FERC to the extent we own, operate, or control generation used to make wholesale sales of power or provide ancillary services such as exporting power to the electric power grid as a short-term reserve resource. For example, our subsidiary, Celerity, is subject to direct regulation by FERC because Celerity exports power to the electric power grid for resale pursuant to a contract with SDG&E. In addition, in an order issued in January 2010, FERC clarified that when a demand response resource is used to provide ancillary services that involve a sale of electric energy or capacity for resale, or export power onto the electric power grid, such a transaction may be subject to direct regulation by FERC. We are still assessing the extent to which any of our demand response resources may be subject to direct regulation by FERC, but do not expect FERC's determination that it has jurisdiction over such activity to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The installation of devices used in providing our solutions and electric generators sometimes installed or activated when providing demand response solutions may be subject to governmental oversight and regulation under state and local ordinances relating to building codes, public safety regulations pertaining to electrical connections, security protocols, and local and state licensing requirements. In a relatively few instances, we have agreed to own and operate a back-up generator at a commercial, institutional or industrial customer location for a period of time and to activate the generator when capacity is called for dispatch so that the commercial, institutional or industrial customer can reduce its consumption of electricity from the electric power grid. These generators are ineligible to participate in demand response programs in certain regions, and in others they may become ineligible to participate in the future or may be compensated less for such participation, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely affecting our financial condition. In addition, certain of our contracts and expansion of existing contracts with grid operators and utility customers are subject to approval by federal, state, provincial or local regulatory agencies. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained or be issued on a timely basis, if at all. Additionally, federal, state, provincial or local governmental entities may seek to change existing regulations, impose additional regulations or change their interpretation of the applicability of existing regulations. Any modified or new government regulation applicable to our current or future solutions, whether at the federal, state, provincial or local level, may negatively impact the installation, servicing and marketing of those solutions and increase our costs and the price of our solutions. We depend on the electric power industry for revenues and, as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in electric power industry spending and other factors affecting the electric utility industry, such as seasonality of peak demand and overall demand for electricity. We currently derive substantially all of our revenues from the sale of our demand response solutions, directly or indirectly, to the electric power industry. Purchases of our demand response solutions by grid operators or electric utilities may be deferred, cancelled or otherwise negatively impacted as a result of many factors, including challenging economic conditions, mergers and acquisitions involving electric utilities, changing regulations or program rules, fluctuations in interest rates and increased electric utility capital spending on traditional supply-side resources. For example, in 28 Table of Contents October 2008, ISO-NE requested that FERC approve its modification to the market rules applicable to ISO-NE's forward capacity market that reduces the value placed on demand resources beginning with the 2012/2013 capacity commitment period. This change, ultimately approved by FERC and made effective December 31, 2008, may result in reduced participation by demand resources in the forward capacity market and may negatively impact our future revenues and could delay or prevent our profitability. In addition, sales of capacity in open markets are particularly susceptible to variability based on changes in the spending patterns of our grid operator and utility customers and on associated fluctuating market prices for capacity. Peak demand for electricity and other capacity constraints tend to be seasonal. Peak demand in the United States tends to be most extreme in warmer months, which may lead some capacity markets to yield higher prices for capacity or contract for the availability of a greater amount of capacity during these warmer months. As a result, our demand response revenues may be seasonal. For example, in the PJM forward capacity market, which is a market in which we materially increased our participation beginning in the first quarter of 2008 and in which we expect to continue to increase our participation and derive revenues for the foreseeable future, we recognize capacity-based revenue from PJM over the four-month delivery period of June through September. This typically results in higher revenues in our second and third quarters as compared to our first and fourth quarters. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Further, occasional events, such as a spike in natural gas prices or potential decreases in availability, can lead grid operators and utilities to implement short-term calls for demand response capacity to respond to these events, but we cannot be sure that such calls will continue or that we will be in a position to generate revenues when they do occur. In addition, given the current economic slowdown and the related potential reduction in demand for electricity, there can be no assurance that there will not be a corresponding reduction in the implementation of both supply and demand-side resources by grid operators and utilities. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant variability in our revenues, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these and other factors. Pronounced variability or an extended period of reduction in spending by grid operators and utilities, or continued requests from grid operators and utilities to pay for demand response capacity at prices that are not equal on a monthly or quarterly basis over the course of a contract year, could negatively impact our business and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our future sales, which could lead to increased spending by us that does not result in increases in revenues. The expiration of our existing long-term contracts with utilities and grid operators without obtaining renewal or replacement contracts could negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues and profit margins, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into long-term contracts with our utility and grid operator customers in different geographic regions in the United States, as well as in Canada and the United Kingdom, and are regularly in discussions to enter into new long-term contracts with utilities and grid operators. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew or extend our existing contracts with our utility and grid operator customers or enter into new long-term contracts with utilities and grid operators on favorable terms, if at all. If, upon expiration, we are unable to renew or extend our existing long-term contracts and are unable to enter into new long-term contracts with utilities and grid operators, our future revenues and profit margins could be significantly reduced, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Failure of third parties to manufacture quality products or provide reliable services in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our solutions, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality, reliable, secure demand response and energy management solutions in a timely manner, which in part requires the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned, operated or manufactured by third parties upon which we depend. For example, our reliance on third parties includes: •utilizing components that we or third parties install or have installed at commercial, institutional and industrial customer locations; •outsourcing email notification and cellular and paging wireless communications that are used to notify our end-use customers of their need to reduce electricity consumption at a particular time and to execute instructions to devices installed at our end-use customer locations and which are programmed to automatically reduce consumption on receipt of such secure communications; and •outsourcing certain installation and maintenance operations to third-party providers. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products, services or operations could adversely affect the reliability or operation of our demand response and energy management solutions, which could cause us to experience difficulty monitoring or retaining current customers and attracting new customers. Such delays could also result in our making refunds or paying penalty fees to our grid operator and utility customers. In addition, our brand, reputation and growth could be negatively impacted. If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives. Our continued success depends upon the continued availability, contributions, vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management, sales and marketing, research and development, and operations teams. We do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team, but none of these agreements guarantees the services of the individual for a specified period of time. All of the employment arrangements with our key personnel, including the members of our senior management team, provide that employment is at-will and may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any of these persons in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives. We rely on our research and development team to research, design and develop new and enhanced demand response and energy management solutions. We rely on our operations team to install, test, deliver and manage our demand response and energy management solutions. We rely on our sales and marketing team to sell our solutions to our customers, build our brand and promote our company. The loss or interruption of the service of members of our senior management, sales and marketing, research and development, or operations teams, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could significantly reduce our ability to manage our operations and implement our strategy. We expect to continue to expand our sales and marketing, operations, and research and development capabilities, as well as our financial and reporting systems, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience growth in the number of our employees and significant growth in the scope of our operations. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and 30 Table of Contents improve our managerial, operational, financial and reporting systems, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and adequately train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. We compete for personnel and advisors with other companies and other organizations, many of which are larger and have greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we do. If we are not able to hire, train and retain the necessary personnel, or if these managerial, operational, financial and reporting improvements are not implemented successfully, we could lose customers and revenues. We allocate our operations, sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative, and financial resources based on our business plan, which includes assumptions about current and future contracts and open market programs with grid operator and utility customers, current and future contracts with commercial, institutional and industrial customers, variable prices in open markets for demand response capacity, the development of ancillary services markets which enable demand response as a revenue generating resource and a variety of other factors relating to electricity markets, and the resulting demand for our demand response and energy management solutions. However, these factors are uncertain. If our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or if alternatives to those offered by our solutions gain further acceptance, then actual demand for our demand response and energy management solutions could be significantly less than the demand we anticipate and we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth or achieve profitability. An oversupply of electric generation capacity and varying regulatory structures, program rules and program designs in certain regional power markets could negatively affect our business and results of operations. A buildup of new electric generation facilities or reduced demand for electric capacity could result in excess electric generation capacity in certain regional power markets. In addition, the electric power industry is highly regulated. The regulatory structures in regional electricity markets are varied and some regulatory requirements make it more difficult for us to provide some or all of our demand response and energy management solutions in those regions. For instance, in some markets, regulated quantity or payment levels for demand response capacity or energy make it more difficult for us to cost-effectively enroll and manage many commercial, institutional and industrial customers in demand response programs. Further, some markets, such as New York, have regulatory structures that do not yet include demand response as a qualifying resource for purposes of short-term reserve requirements known as ancillary services. As part of our business strategy, we intend to expand into additional regional electricity markets. However, the combination of excess electric generation capacity and unfavorable regulatory structures could limit the number of regional electricity markets available to us for expansion. In addition, unfavorable regulatory decisions in markets where we currently operate could also negatively affect our business. For example, regulators could modify market rules in certain areas to further limit the use of back-up generators in demand response markets or could implement bidding floors or caps that could lower our revenue opportunities. A limit on back-up generators would mean that some of the capacity reductions we aggregate from end-use customers willing to reduce consumption from the grid by activating their own back-up generators during demand response events would not qualify as capacity, and we would have to find alternative sources of capacity from end-use customers willing to reduce load by curtailing consumption rather than by generating electricity themselves. Market rules could also be modified to change the design of a particular demand response program, which design may adversely affect our participation in that program, or a demand response program in which we currently participate could be eliminated in its entirety. Any elimination or 31 Table of Contents change in the design of a demand response program, including any supplemental program, in which we participate, especially in the PJM or ISO-NE markets, could adversely impact our ability to successfully provide our demand response solutions or manage our portfolio of MW under management in that program, thereby reducing our revenues and profit margins and having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face pricing pressure relating to electric capacity made available to grid operators and utilities and in the percentage or fixed amount paid to commercial, institutional and industrial customers for making capacity available, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and delay or prevent our future profitability. The rapid growth of the clean and intelligent energy solutions sector is resulting in increasingly aggressive pricing, which could cause the prices for clean and intelligent energy solutions to decrease over time. Our grid operator and utility customers may switch to other clean and intelligent energy solutions providers based on price, particularly if they perceive the quality of our competitors' products or services to be equal or superior to ours. Continued decreases in the price of capacity by our competitors could result in a loss of grid operator and utility customers or a decrease in the growth of our business, or it may require us to lower our prices for capacity to remain competitive, which would result in reduced revenues and lower profit margins and would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and delay or prevent our future profitability. Continued increases in the percentage or fixed amount paid to commercial, institutional and industrial customers by our competitors for making capacity available could result in a loss of commercial, institutional and industrial customers or a decrease in the growth of our business and could delay or prevent our profitability. It also may require us to increase the percentage or fixed amount we pay to our commercial, institutional and industrial customers to remain competitive, which would result in increases in the cost of revenues and lower profit margins and would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and delay or prevent our future profitability. An inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon the maintenance and protection of the intellectual property related to our clean and intelligent energy solutions. We hold two issued patents, 13 registered trademarks and numerous copyrights. Patent protection is unavailable for certain aspects of the technology and operational processes that are important to our business. Any patent held by us or to be issued to us, or any of our pending patent applications, could be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable or circumvented. Moreover, some of our trademarks which are not in use may become available to others. To date, we have relied principally on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws, as well as confidentiality and proprietary information agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, we have not obtained confidentiality and proprietary information agreements from all of our customers and vendors, and although we have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with all of our employees, we cannot be certain that these agreements will be honored. Some of our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements are not in writing, and some customers are subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing our rights against unauthorized use. The steps that we have taken or may take may not prevent misappropriation of the intellectual property on which we rely. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in jurisdictions outside the United States, as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. From time to time, third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs, divert resources away from our daily operations and result in the impairment of our intellectual property. Failure to adequately enforce our rights could cause us to lose rights in our intellectual property and may negatively affect our business. 32 Table of Contents We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation related to allegations that our demand response or energy management solutions infringe on intellectual property held by others, which could result in the loss of use of those solutions. Third-party patent applications and patents may relate to our clean and intelligent energy solutions. As a result, third-parties may in the future make infringement and other allegations that could subject us to intellectual property litigation relating to our solutions, which litigation could be time-consuming and expensive, divert attention and resources away from our daily operations, impede or prevent delivery of our solutions, and require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our solutions and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. If our information technology systems fail to adequately gather, assess and protect data used in providing our clean and intelligent energy solutions, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively control the devices which enable our demand response solutions; gather and assess data used in providing our energy management solutions; manage relationships with our customers; and maintain our research and development data. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to demand response events. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: •earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; •terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers; •power loss; and •computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption in the operation of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenues under our demand response and energy management contracts and commitments, reduced profit margins on revenues where fixed payments are due to our commercial, institutional and industrial customers, reductions in our demonstrated capacity levels going forward, customer dissatisfaction and lawsuits and could subject us to penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global economic and credit market conditions, and any associated impact on spending by utilities or grid operators or on the continued operations of our commercial, institutional and industrial customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets in 2008 and 2009 have led to a significant reduction in the availability of business credit, decreased liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in the United States and internationally. If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, numerous economic and financial factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, including: •decreased spending by utilities or grid operators, or by commercial, institutional or industrial end-users of electricity, may result in reduced demand for our clean and intelligent energy solutions; 33 Table of Contents •consumer demand for electricity may be reduced, which could result in lower prices for both demand-side and supply-side capacity in open market programs and pursuant to long-term contracts with utilities and grid operators; •if commercial, institutional and industrial customers in our demand response network experience financial difficulty, some may cease or reduce business operations, or reduce their electricity usage, all of which could reduce the number of MW of demand response capacity under our management; •we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return, which could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons, and disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid; •if our commercial, institutional and industrial customers to whom we provide our monitoring-based commissioning services experience financial difficulty, it could result in their inability to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and an increase in charges for uncollectable receivables; and •due to stricter lending standards, commercial, institutional and industrial end-users of electricity to whom we offer our energy procurement services may be unable to obtain adequate credit ratings acceptable to electricity suppliers, resulting in increased costs, which might make our solutions less attractive or result in their inability to contract with us for our energy procurement services. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. Electric power industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable and require significant employee time and financial resources with no assurances that we will realize revenues. Sales cycles with grid operator and utility customers are generally long and unpredictable. The grid operators and utilities that are our potential customers generally have extended budgeting, procurement and regulatory approval processes. They also tend to be risk averse and tend to follow industry trends rather than be the first to purchase new products or services, which can extend the lead time for or prevent acceptance of new products or services such as our demand response and energy management solutions. Accordingly, our potential utility and grid operator customers may take longer to reach a decision to purchase services. This extended sales process requires the dedication of significant time by our personnel and our use of significant financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. It is not unusual for a grid operator or utility customer to go through the entire sales process and not accept any proposal or quote. Long and unpredictable sales cycles with grid operator and utility customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An increased rate of terminations by our commercial, institutional and industrial customers, or their failure to renew contracts when they expire, would negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues, delaying or preventing our profitability and requiring us to spend more money to maintain and grow our commercial, institutional and industrial customer base. Our ability to provide demand response capacity under our long-term contracts and in open market bidding programs depends on the amount of MW that we manage across commercial, institutional and industrial customers who enter into contracts with us to reduce electricity consumption on demand. A significant portion of our contracts with our existing commercial, institutional and 34 Table of Contents industrial customers are scheduled for renewal in 2010 and annually thereafter. If these customers do not renew their contracts as they expire, we will need to acquire MW from additional commercial, institutional and industrial customers or expand our relationships with existing commercial, institutional and industrial customers in order to maintain our revenues and grow our business. The loss of revenues resulting from contract terminations could be significant, and limiting customer terminations is an important factor in our ability to achieve future profitability. If we are unsuccessful in limiting our commercial, institutional and industrial customer terminations, we may be unable to acquire a sufficient amount of MW or we may incur significant costs to replace MW, which could cause our revenues to decrease and our cost of revenues to increase, and delay or prevent our profitability. We may incur significant penalties and fines if found to be in non-compliance with any applicable State or Federal regulation. While the electric power markets in which we operate are regulated, most of our business is not directly subject to the regulatory framework applicable to the generation and transmission of electricity. However, regulations by FERC related to market design, market rules, tariffs, and bidding rules impact how we can interact with our grid operator and utility customers. For example, our subsidiary Celerity exports some power to the electric power grid and is thus subject to direct regulation by FERC and its regulations related to the sale of wholesale power at market based rates. In addition, to the extent our demand response resources are used to provide ancillary services that involve a sale of electric energy or capacity for resale, or the export of power onto the electric power grid, such activities are also subject to direct regulation by FERC. Despite our efforts to manage compliance with such regulations, we may be found to be in non-compliance with such regulations and therefore subject to penalties or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to develop new clean and intelligent energy solutions and increase the functionality of our current demand response and energy management solutions. The market for demand response and energy management solutions is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new software introductions, Internet-related technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards and regulations. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new clean and intelligent energy solutions that comply with present or emerging industry regulations and technology standards. Also, any new regulation or technology standard could increase our cost of doing business. From time to time, our customers have expressed a need for increased functionality in our solutions. In response, and as part of our strategy to enhance our clean and intelligent energy solutions and grow our business, we plan to continue to make substantial investments in the research and development of new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to design and sell new, competitive clean and intelligent energy solutions, enhance our existing demand response and energy management solutions and provide new, value-added services to our customers. Initiatives to develop new solutions will require continued investment, and we may experience unforeseen problems in the performance of our technologies and operational processes, including new technologies and operational processes that we develop and deploy, to implement our solutions. In addition, software addressing the procurement and management of energy assets is complex and can be expensive to develop, and new software and software enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If we are unable to develop new clean and intelligent energy solutions or enhancements to our existing demand response and energy management solutions on a timely basis, or if the market does not accept such solutions, we will lose opportunities to realize revenues and obtain customers, and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Any internal or external security breaches involving our demand response and energy management solutions, and even the perception of security risks of our solutions or the transmission of data over the Internet, whether or not valid, could harm our reputation and inhibit market acceptance of our solutions and cause us to lose customers. We use our demand response and energy management solutions to compile and analyze sensitive or confidential information related to our customers. In addition, some of our demand response and energy management solutions allow us to remotely control equipment at commercial, institutional and industrial customer sites. Our demand response and energy management solutions rely on the secure transmission of proprietary data over the Internet for some of this functionality. Well-publicized compromises of Internet security could have the effect of substantially reducing confidence in the Internet as a medium of data transmission. The occurrence or perception of security breaches in our demand response and energy management solutions or our customers' concerns about Internet security or the security of our solutions, whether or not they are warranted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, harm our reputation, inhibit market acceptance of our demand response and energy management solutions and cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may come into contact with sensitive consumer information or data when we perform operational, installation or maintenance functions for our customers. Even the perception that we have improperly handled sensitive, confidential information could have a negative effect on our business. If, in handling this information, we fail to comply with privacy or security laws, we could incur civil liability to government agencies, customers and individuals whose privacy is compromised. In addition, third parties may attempt to breach our security or inappropriately use our demand response and energy management solutions, particularly as we grow our business, through computer viruses, electronic break-ins and other disruptions. We may also face a security breach or electronic break-in by one of our employees or former employees. If a breach is successful, confidential information may be improperly obtained, and we may be subject to lawsuits and other liabilities. We may require significant additional capital to pursue our growth strategy, but we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. The growth of our business will depend on substantial amounts of additional capital for posting financial assurances in order to enter into contracts and open market bidding programs with utilities and grid operators, and marketing and product development of our demand response and energy management solutions. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of our revenue and sales growth, our introduction of new solutions and enhancements to existing solutions, and our expansion of sales and marketing and product development activities. In addition, we may consider strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies to grow our business, such as our acquisitions of SRC in May 2008, eQ in June 2009 and Cogent in December 2009, which could require significant capital and could increase our capital expenditures related to future operation of the acquired business or technology. Because of our historical losses, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria. Moreover, the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a reduction in the availability of credit in the credit markets, which will likely adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funding. We may not be able to obtain loans or additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, we and one of our subsidiaries entered into a loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, in August 2008, which was subsequently amended in May 2009 and which we refer to as the SVB credit facility. The SVB credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which, if not waived, could prevent us from obtaining needed capital. Any future credit facilities would likely contain similar restrictions. In the event additional funding is required, we may not be able to obtain bank credit arrangements or effect an equity or debt financing 36 Table of Contents on terms acceptable to us or at all. A failure to obtain additional financing when needed could adversely affect our ability to maintain and grow our business. Our SVB credit facility contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants in the SVB credit facility, we may be required to repay our indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Provisions in the SVB credit facility impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •create liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •transfer assets; •pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, EnerNOC stock; or •merge or consolidate. In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants customary with this type of credit facility, including maintaining a minimum specified tangible net worth and a minimum specified ratio of current assets to current liabilities. The SVB credit facility also contains other customary covenants. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and could cause us to be unable to borrow under the SVB credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under the SVB credit facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the SVB credit facility, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company's stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for United States federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company's ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. The number of shares of our common stock that we issued in our initial public offering, or IPO, and follow-on public offerings, together with any subsequent shares of stock we issue, may be sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset United States federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions successfully, which may inhibit our rate of growth, and acquisitions that we complete may expose us to a number of unanticipated operational and financial risks. In addition to organic growth, we intend to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of companies or assets that may enable us to enhance our technology and capabilities, expand our geographic market, add experienced management personnel and increase our service offerings. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreement on potential acquisitions on acceptable terms, successfully integrate 37 Table of Contents personnel or assets that we acquire or for other reasons. Our acquisition efforts may involve certain risks, including: •we may have difficulty integrating operations and systems; •key personnel and customers of the acquired company may terminate their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; •we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting; •we may assume or be held liable for risks and liabilities, including for environmental-related costs, as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not discover during our due diligence; •we may incur significant additional operating expenses; •our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and •we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial and operational benefits we anticipated. The process of negotiating acquisitions and integrating acquired products, services, technologies, personnel or businesses might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In June and December 2009, we acquired eQ and Cogent, respectively, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate them or any other companies, products or technologies that we acquire. Our ability to provide security deposits or letters of credit is limited and could negatively affect our ability to bid on or enter into significant long-term agreements or arrangements with utilities or grid operators. We are increasingly required to provide security deposits in the form of cash to secure our performance under long-term contracts or open market bidding programs with our grid operator and utility customers. In addition, some of our utility or grid operator customers require collateral in the form of letters of credit to secure our performance or to fund possible damages or true-up payments resulting from our failure to make available capacity at agreed levels or any other event of default by us. Our ability to obtain such letters of credit primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and reputation and external factors beyond our control, including the overall capacity of the credit market. Events that affect credit markets generally may result in letters of credit becoming more difficult to obtain in the future, or being available only at a significantly greater cost. As of December 31, 2009, we had $30.4 million of letters of credit outstanding under the SVB credit facility, leaving $4.6 million available under this facility for additional letters of credit. We may be required, from time to time, to seek alternative sources of security deposits or letters of credit, which may be expensive and difficult to obtain, if available at all. For example, because we had no additional credit available under the SVB credit facility in May 2009, we entered into a credit arrangement with a third-party in connection with bidding capacity into a certain open market bidding program. The arrangement included an up-front payment of $2.0 million, and we will be required to pay the third party an additional contingent fee, up to a maximum of $3.0 million, based 38 Table of Contents on the revenue that we expect to earn and recognize in 2012 in connection with the bid. Our inability to obtain letters of credit and, as a result, to bid or enter into significant long-term agreements or arrangements with utilities or grid operators, could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. In addition, in the event that we default under long-term contracts or open market bidding programs with our grid operator and utility customers pursuant to which we have posted collateral, we may lose a portion or all of such collateral, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the software we use in providing our demand response and energy management solutions produces inaccurate information or is incompatible with the systems used by our customers, it could make us unable to provide our solutions, which could lead to a loss of revenues and trigger penalty payments. Our software is complex and, accordingly, may contain undetected errors or failures when introduced or subsequently modified. Software defects or inaccurate data may cause incorrect recording, reporting or display of information about the level of demand reduction at a commercial, institutional and industrial customer location, which could cause us to fail to meet our commitments to have capacity available. Any such failures could cause us to be subject to penalty payments to our grid operator and utility customers or reduce revenue in the period the adjustment is identified and result in reductions in capacity payments under contracts and in open market bidding programs in subsequent periods. In addition, such defects and inaccurate data may prevent us from successfully providing our energy management solutions, which would result in lost revenues. Software defects or inaccurate data may lead to customer dissatisfaction and our customers may seek to hold us liable for any damages incurred. As a result, we could lose customers, our reputation could be harmed and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We currently serve a commercial, institutional and industrial customer base that uses a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software applications and operating systems. Building control, process control and metering systems frequently reside on non-standard operating systems. Our demand response and energy management solutions need to interface with these non-standard systems in order to gather and assess data and to implement changes in electricity consumption. Our business depends on the following factors, among others: •our ability to integrate our technology with new and existing hardware and software systems, including metering, building control, process control, and distributed generation systems; •our ability to anticipate and support new standards, especially Internet-based standards and building control and metering system protocol languages; and •our ability to integrate additional software modules under development with our existing technology and operational processes. If we are unable to adequately address any of these factors, our results of operations and prospects for growth and profitability could be materially adversely effected. We may face certain product liability or warranty claims if we disrupt our customers' networks or applications. For some of our current and planned solutions, our software and hardware is integrated with our commercial, institutional and industrial customers' networks and software applications. The integration of our software and hardware may entail the risk of product liability or warranty claims based on disruption or security breaches to these networks or applications. In addition, the failure of our software and hardware to perform to customer expectations could give rise to warranty claims against us. Any of these claims, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation or divert management's attention and resources. Although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage 39 Table of Contents could be insufficient to protect us from all liability that may be imposed under these types of claims. A material product liability claim may seriously harm our results of operations. We face risks related to our potential expansion into international markets. We intend to expand our addressable market by pursuing opportunities to provide demand response and energy management solutions in international markets. For example, during the third quarter of 2009, we commenced operations in the United Kingdom by enrolling MW in National Grid's Short-Term Operating Reserve program. Prior to this, we had no experience operating in markets outside of the United States and Canada. Accordingly, new markets may require us to respond to new and unanticipated regulatory, marketing, sales and other challenges. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in responding to these and other challenges we may face as we enter and attempt to expand in international markets. International operations also entail a variety of other risks, including: •unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries; •currency exchange fluctuations; •longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; and •significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. International operations are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could adversely affect any international operations and result in lower revenue than we expect and could significantly affect our profitability. A failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. As a public company, our internal control over financial reporting is required to comply with the standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Accordingly, we are currently required to document and test our internal controls and procedures to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is currently required to report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to maintain effective control over financial reporting, such conclusion would be disclosed in this and/or subsequent Annual Reports on Form 10-K. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses and deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, we will not be able to conclude that we have and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or The NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, and investors may lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. In addition, testing and maintaining internal control in accordance with Section 404 requires increased management time and resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair the success of our business and harm our financial results. 40 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect our quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may be misleading. The results of one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. Our revenues and operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including: •demand for and acceptance of our clean and intelligent energy solutions; •the seasonality of our demand response business in certain of the markets in which we operate, where revenues recognized under certain long-term capacity contracts and pursuant to certain open market bidding programs can be higher or concentrated in particular seasons and months; •changes in open market bidding program rules and reductions in pricing for demand response capacity; •delays in the implementation and delivery of our clean and intelligent energy solutions, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues; •delays or reductions in spending for clean and intelligent energy solutions by our grid operator or utility customers and potential customers; •the long lead time associated with securing new customer contracts; •the structure of any forward capacity market in which we participate, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues related to that market; •the mix of our revenues during any period, particularly on a regional basis, since local fees recognized as revenues for demand response capacity tend to vary according to the level of available capacity in given regions; •the termination or expiration of existing contracts with grid operator and utility customers and commercial, institutional and industrial customers; •the potential interruptions of our customers' operations; •development of new relationships and maintenance and enhancement of existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; •temporary capacity programs that could be implemented by grid operators and utilities to address short-term capacity deficiencies; •the imposition of penalties or the reversal of deferred revenue due to our failure to meet a capacity commitment; •flaws in the design or the elimination of any demand response program in which we participate; •global economic and credit market conditions; and •increased expenditures for sales and marketing, software development and other corporate activities. 41 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Prior to our IPO, there was not a public market for our common stock. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price; however, since our common stock began trading on NASDAQ on May 18, 2007 through December 31, 2009, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $4.80 to a high of $50.50. Furthermore, the stock market has recently experienced significant volatility. The volatility of stocks for companies in the energy industry often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: •demand for and acceptance of our clean and intelligent energy solutions; •our ability to develop new relationships and maintain and enhance existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; •changes in open market bidding program rules and reductions in pricing for demand response capacity; •the termination or expiration of existing contracts with grid operator and utility customers and commercial, institutional and industrial customers; •general market conditions and overall fluctuations in equity markets in the United States; •flaws in the design or the elimination of any demand response program in which we participate; •introduction of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; •changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any cover our common stock; •delays in the implementation and delivery of our clean and intelligent energy solutions, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues; •litigation or regulatory enforcement actions; •changes in the regulations affecting the energy industry in the United States and internationally; •the way in which we recognize revenues and the timing associated with our recognition of revenues; •developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; •period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; •the potential interruptions of our customers' operations; •the seasonality of our demand response business in certain of the markets in which we operate; •failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations, or the future sale or issuance of equity securities at prices below fair market price or in general; and •economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. 42 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the development, operation and growth of our business. In addition, the SVB credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends and future loan agreements may also prohibit the payment of dividends. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in our common stock. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and Delaware law, and of some of our employment arrangements, may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult and could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which we may have otherwise received a premium on our shares of common stock. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: •allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; •require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; •establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of the board be elected at one time; •authorize our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a "poison pill" to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; •require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; •prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors; •establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; •limit who may call stockholder meetings; and •require the approval of the holders of 75% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Some of our employment arrangements and equity agreements provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of equity awards, upon a change of control. These provisions may discourage or prevent a change of control. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General 43 Table of Contents Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a proscribed period of time. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If these analysts do not continue to provide adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and NASDAQ, require significant resources, increase our costs and distract our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with equity securities listed on NASDAQ, we must comply with statutes and regulations of the SEC and the requirements of NASDAQ. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of the time of our board of directors and management and significantly increases our costs and expenses. In addition, as a public company we incur substantially higher costs to obtain director and officer liability insurance policies than we did as a private company. These factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Our directors and management may be able to exercise significant control over our company, which will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2009, our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively beneficially owned approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, may be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 