Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements contained in this section, as well as statements described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our other SEC filings, describe risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our securities. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Risks Related to Our Business A substantial majority of our revenues are and have been generated from open market program sales to a certain electric power grid operator customer, and the modification or termination of this open market program or sales relationship, or the modification or termination of a sales relationship with any future significant electric power grid operator or utility customer could materially adversely affect our business. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, revenues generated from open market sales to PJM, an electric power grid operator customer, accounted for 45%, 40% and 53%, respectively, of our total revenues. The modification or termination of our sales relationship with PJM, or the modification or termination of any of PJM’s open market programs in which we participate, including increases to the operational requirements related to the provision of demand response, modifications to the cost, quantity and clearing mechanics related to our participation in capacity auctions or other limitations on our ability to effectively manage our portfolio of demand response capacity, could significantly reduce our future revenues and profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the introduction in the PJM market of the summer-only, extended-summer and annual demand response products beginning in the 2014/2015 delivery year could adversely impact our ability to successfully manage our portfolio of demand response capacity in that program and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to obtain favorable prices in the open market programs in which we currently participate or choose to participate in the future, specifically in the PJM market, our revenues, gross profits and profit margins will be negatively impacted. In open market programs, electric power grid operators and utilities generally seek bids from companies such as ours to provide demand response capacity based on prices offered in competitive bidding. These prices may be subject to volatility due to certain market conditions or other events, and, as a result, the prices offered to us for this demand response capacity may be significantly lower than historical prices. To the extent we are subject to price reductions in certain of the markets in which we currently participate or choose to participate in the future, our revenues, gross profits and profit margins could be negatively impacted. In addition, we may alter our participation in both new markets and in markets in which we currently offer our EIS and related solutions, services and products, including by determining not to participate in open market bids to provide demand response capacity. We also may be subject to reduced capacity prices or be unable to participate in certain open market programs for a period of time to the extent that our bidding strategy fails to produce favorable results. In addition, adverse changes in the general economic and market conditions in the regions in which we provide demand response capacity may result in a reduced demand for electricity, resulting in lower prices for capacity, both demand-side and supply-side, for the foreseeable future, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Unfavorable regulatory decisions, changes to the market rules applicable to the programs in which we currently participate or may participate in the future, and varying regulatory structures in certain regional electric power markets could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Unfavorable regulatory decisions in markets where we currently operate or choose to operate in the future could significantly and negatively affect our business. For example, to the extent that PJM or any other grid operator 13 Table of Contents or utility customer is successful at modifying any program or market rules in the future in a manner adverse to our business, our future revenues and profit margins may be significantly reduced and our future results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Market rules could also be modified to change the design of, or pricing related to a particular demand response program, which may adversely affect our participation in that program or cause us to cease participation in that program altogether, or a demand response program in which we currently participate could be eliminated in its entirety and replaced with a new program that is more expensive for us to operate. Any elimination or change in the design of a demand response program, including any supplemental program or market rule, could adversely impact our ability to successfully manage our portfolio of demand response capacity in that program, especially in the PJM market where we continue to have substantial operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Regulators could also modify market rules in certain areas to further limit the use of back-up generators in demand response markets or could implement bidding floors or caps that could lower our revenue opportunities. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, recently issued a final rule in the National Environmental Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines that will allow emergency generators to participate in emergency demand response programs for up to 100 hours per year. In the event this final rule is challenged, and such challenge results in a decrease to the 100 hour per year limit for, or the elimination of any, participation by emergency generators in emergency demand response programs, some of the demand response capacity reductions that we aggregate from C&I customers willing to reduce consumption from the electric power grid by activating their own back-up generators during demand response events would not qualify as capacity without the addition of certain emissions reduction equipment. If this were to occur, we would have to find alternative sources of capacity to meet our capacity obligations to our electric power grid operator and utility customers. If we were unable to procure additional sources of capacity to meet these obligations, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. The electric power industry is highly regulated. The regulatory structures in regional electricity markets are varied and some regulatory requirements make it more difficult for us to provide some or all of our EIS and related solutions, services and products in those regions. For instance, in some markets, regulated quantity or payment levels for demand response capacity or energy make it more difficult for us to cost-effectively enroll and manage many C&I customers in demand response programs. Further, some markets have regulatory structures that do not yet include demand response as a qualifying resource for purposes of short-term reserve requirements known as ancillary services. As part of our business strategy, we intend to expand into additional regional electricity markets. However, unfavorable regulatory structures could limit the number of regional electricity markets available to us for expansion. In addition, a buildup of new electric generation facilities or reduced demand for electric capacity could result in excess electric generation capacity in certain regional electric power markets. Excess electric generation capacity and unfavorable regulatory structures could lower the value of demand response services and limit the number of economically attractive regional electricity markets that are available to us for expansion, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. We may be subject to governmental or regulatory investigations or audits and may incur significant penalties and fines if found to be in non-compliance with any applicable State or Federal regulation. While the electric power markets in which we operate are regulated, most of our business is not directly subject to the regulatory framework applicable to the generation and transmission of electricity. However, regulations by FERC related to market design, market rules, tariffs, and bidding rules impact how we can interact with our electric power grid operator and utility customers. In addition, we may be subject to governmental or regulatory investigations or audits from time to time in connection with our participation in certain demand response programs. Any investigation by FERC or any other governmental or regulatory authorities could result in a material adjustment to our historical financial statements and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As part of any regulatory investigation or audit, FERC or any other governmental or regulatory entity may review our performance under our utility contracts and open market bidding programs, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If an investigation or 14 Table of Contents audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, in addition to any negative publicity associated with any such penalties or sanctions, as well as, incur legal and related costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks related to our expansion into international markets. We intend to expand our addressable market by continuing to pursue opportunities to provide our EIS and related solutions, services and products in international markets. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2013 we entered into a joint venture in Japan and in the first quarter of 2014 we consummated two separate acquisitions of demand response companies in Germany and Ireland to complement our international operations in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and New Zealand. Accordingly, new international markets may require us to respond to new and unanticipated regulatory, marketing, sales and other challenges. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in responding to these and other challenges we may face as we enter and attempt to expand in international markets. International operations also entail a variety of other risks, including: • unexpected changes in legislative, regulatory or market requirements of foreign countries; • currency exchange fluctuations; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; and • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. International operations are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could adversely affect any international operations and result in lower revenue than we expect and could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions successfully, which may inhibit our rate of growth, and acquisitions that we complete may expose us to a number of unanticipated operational and financial risks. In addition to organic growth, we intend to continue to pursue growth through the acquisition of companies or assets that may enable us to enhance our technology and capabilities, expand our geographic market, add experienced management personnel and increase our service offerings. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreement on potential acquisitions on acceptable terms, successfully integrate personnel or assets that we acquire or for other reasons. Our acquisition efforts may involve certain risks, including: • unexpected acquisition costs or liabilities that may cause us to fail to meet our previously stated financial guidance, or the effects of purchase accounting may be different from our expectations; • problems that may arise with our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, which may result in us not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected, and may include: • diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration or inadequate management resources available for integration activity and oversight; • failure to retain and motivate key employees; • failure to successfully manage relationships with customers and suppliers; • failure of customers to accept our new EIS and related solutions, services and products; • failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts; • failure to combine service offerings quickly and effectively; 15 Table of Contents • failure to effectively enhance acquired technology, applications, services and products or develop new applications, services and products relating to the acquired businesses; • difficulties and inefficiencies in managing and operating businesses in multiple locations or operating businesses in which we have either limited or no direct experience; • difficulties integrating financial reporting systems; • difficulties in the timely filing of required reports with the SEC; and • difficulties in implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, appropriate for a larger public company at companies that, prior to their acquisition, lacked such controls, procedures and policies, which may result in ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting; • difficulties in achieving the expected synergies from an acquisition including taking longer than expected to achieve those synergies; • incurring future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we paid for them; • restructuring operations or reductions in workforce, which may result in substantial charges to our operations; and • issuance of potentially dilutive equity securities, the incurrence of debt—or contingent liabilities, which could harm our financial condition. We are currently subject to litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On May 3, 2013, a purported shareholder of the Company filed a derivative and class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against certain of our officers and directors, as well as the Company as a nominal defendant, alleging breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment in connection with certain equity grants (awarded in 2010, 2012, and 2013) that allegedly exceeded an annual limit on per-employee equity grants purported to be contained in our 2007 Plan. While we believe we have substantial legal and factual defenses to the claims in this lawsuit and we are pursuing these defenses vigorously, the outcome of this litigation is difficult to predict and quantify, and the defense against such claims or actions may be costly. There can be no assurance that our defense of this lawsuit will be successful, or that this claim, in excess of the deductible, will be covered by our insurance. A denial of the claim by the insurance provider or a judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, regardless of the outcome of this matter, the matter may divert financial and management resources and result in general business disruption, including that we may suffer from adverse publicity that could harm our reputation and negatively impact our stock price. Our future profitability is uncertain and we may incur net losses in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $81.4 million. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we realized net income of $22.1 million. Although we achieved profitability for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2010, with net income of $22.1 million and $9.6 million, respectively, we incurred net losses for all other fiscal years since our inception. Our operating losses have historically been driven by start-up costs, costs of developing our technology including new product and service offerings, and operating expenses related to increased headcount and the expansion of the number of MW under our management. As we seek to grow our revenues and customer base, we plan to continue to invest in our business and employee base in order to capitalize on emerging opportunities and expand our EIS and related solutions, services and products, which 16 Table of Contents will require increased operating expenses. Although we believe we will be able to grow our revenues at rates that will allow us to achieve profitability again in the future, these increased operating expenses, as well as other factors, may cause us to incur net losses in the near term. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to develop new EIS and related solutions, services and products and increase the functionality of our current EIS and related solutions, services and products. The market for our EIS and related solutions, services and products is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new software introductions, Internet-related technology enhancements, uncertain product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards and regulations. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new EIS and related solutions, services and products that comply with present or emerging industry regulations and technology standards. Also, any new or modified regulation or technology standard could increase our cost of doing business. From time to time, our customers have expressed a need for increased functionality in our EIS and related solutions, services and products. In response, and as part of our strategy to enhance our EIS and related solutions, services and products and grow our business, we plan to continue to make substantial investments in the research and development of new technologies. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to design and sell new, competitive EIS and related solutions, services and products and enhance our existing EIS and related solutions, services and products. Initiatives to develop new EIS and related solutions, services and products will require continued investment, and we may experience unforeseen problems in the performance of our technologies and operational processes, including new technologies and operational processes that we develop and deploy, to implement our EIS and related solutions, services and products. In addition, software addressing our EIS and related solutions, services and products is complex and can be expensive to develop, and new software and software enhancements can require long development and testing periods. If we are unable to develop new EIS and related solutions, services and products or enhancements to our existing EIS and related solutions, services and products on a timely basis, or if the market does not accept our new or enhanced EIS and related solutions, services and products, we will lose opportunities to realize revenues and obtain customers, and our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We depend on the electric power industry for revenues and, as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in electric power industry spending and other factors affecting the electric utility industry, such as seasonality of peak demand and overall demand for electricity. We derive recurring revenues from the sale of our EIS and related solutions, services and products, directly or indirectly, to the electric power industry. Purchases of our demand response application and services by electric power grid operators or utilities may be deferred, cancelled or otherwise negatively impacted as a result of many factors, including challenging economic conditions, mergers and acquisitions involving these entities, fluctuations in interest rates and increased electric utility capital spending on traditional supply-side resources. In addition, sales of our EIS and related solutions, services and products to electric power grid operator and utility customers may be negatively impacted by changing regulations and program rules, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Sales of demand response capacity in open market bidding programs are particularly susceptible to variability based on changes in the spending patterns of our electric power grid operator and utility customers and on associated fluctuating market prices for capacity. In addition, peak demand for electricity and other capacity constraints tend to be seasonal. Peak demand in the United States tends to be most extreme in warmer months, which may lead some demand response capacity markets to yield higher prices for demand response capacity or contract for the availability of a greater amount of demand response capacity during these warmer months. As a result, our demand response revenues may be seasonal. For example, in the PJM forward capacity market, which is a market from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, we recognize capacity-based revenue from PJM during the third quarter of our fiscal year. This will result in higher revenues in our third quarter as compared to our other fiscal quarters. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter to 17 Table of Contents quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Further, occasional events, such as a spike in natural gas prices or potential decreases in availability, can lead electric power grid operators and utilities to implement short-term calls for demand response capacity to respond to these events, but we cannot be sure that such calls will occur or that we will be in a position to generate revenues when they do occur. In addition, given the current economic slowdown and the related potential reduction in demand for electricity, there can be no assurance that there will not be a corresponding reduction in the implementation of both supply and demand-side resources by electric power grid operators and utilities. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant variability in our revenues, on both an annual and a quarterly basis, as a result of these and other factors. Pronounced variability or an extended period of reduction in spending by electric power grid operators and utilities could negatively impact our business and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our future sales. The 2013 credit facility contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants contained in the 2013 credit facility, we may be required to repay our indebtedness thereunder. In addition, if we fail to extend, renew or replace the 2013 credit facility and we still have letters of credit issued and outstanding when it matures on April 18, 2015, we will be required to post up to 105% of the value of the letters of credit in cash with the bank to collateralize those letters of credit. Either of these conditions may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Provisions in the 2013 credit facility impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • transfer assets; • make certain acquisitions; • pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase, EnerNOC stock; • merge or consolidate; or • undergo a change of control. In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants customary with this type of credit facility, including maintaining minimum free cash flow, minimum unrestricted cash and a minimum specified ratio of current assets to current liabilities. The 2013 credit facility also contains other customary covenants. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and could cause us to be unable to borrow under the 2013 credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under the 2013 credit facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the 2013 credit facility, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. In addition, in the event that we default under the 2013 credit facility while we have letters of credit outstanding, we will be required to post up to 105% of the value of the letters of credit in cash with SVB to collateralize those letters of credit. Furthermore, the 2013 credit facility matures on April 18, 2015. If we fail to extend, renew or replace the 2013 credit facility when it matures, and we still have letters of credit issued and outstanding, we will be required to post up to 105% of the value of the letters of credit in cash with SVB to collateralize those letters of credit. While we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants under the 2013 credit facility as of December 31, 2013, if an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or collateralization of our letters of credit. In addition, we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 18 Table of Contents The expiration of our existing utility contracts without obtaining renewal or replacement utility contracts, or the termination of any of our existing utility contracts, could negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues and profit margins, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into utility contracts with our electric power grid operator and utility customers in different geographic regions in the United States, as well as in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom, and are regularly in discussions to enter into new utility contracts with electric power grid operators and utilities. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew or extend our existing utility contracts or enter into new utility contracts on favorable terms, if at all. If, upon expiration, we are unable to renew or extend our existing utility contracts and are unable to enter into new utility contracts, our future revenues and profit margins could be significantly reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our existing utility contracts generally contain termination provisions pursuant to which the utility customer can terminate the contract under certain circumstances, including in the event that we fail to comply with the terms or provisions contained therein. In addition, in the event that we breach any of our utility contracts, we may be liable to pay the utility customer an associated fee or penalty payment in connection with such breach. The termination of any of our existing utility contracts, or any fees or penalties payable by us in connection with a breach of our existing utility contracts, could negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues and profit margins, thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. An increased rate of terminations by our C&I customers, or their failure to renew contracts when they expire, would negatively impact our business by reducing our revenues and requiring us to spend more money to maintain and grow our C&I customer base. Our ability to provide demand response capacity under our utility contracts and in open market bidding programs depends on the amount of MW that we manage across C&I customers who enter into contracts with us to reduce electricity consumption on demand. If our existing C&I customers do not renew their contracts as they expire, we will need to acquire MW from additional C&I customers or expand our relationships with existing C&I customers in order to maintain our revenues and grow our business. The loss of revenues resulting from C&I customer contract terminations or expirations could be significant, and limiting C&I customer terminations is an important factor in our ability to return to profitability in future periods. If we are unsuccessful in limiting our C&I customer terminations, we may be unable to acquire a sufficient amount of MW or we may incur significant costs to replace MW in our portfolio, which could cause our revenues to decrease and our cost of revenues to increase. We face pricing pressure relating to electric capacity made available to electric power grid operators and utilities and in the percentage or fixed amount paid to C&I customers for making capacity available, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The rapid growth of the EIS and related solutions, services and products sector is resulting in increasingly aggressive pricing, which could cause the prices in that sector to decrease over time. Our electric power grid operator and utility customers may switch to other EIS and related solutions, services and products providers based on price, particularly if they perceive the quality of our competitors’ products or services to be equal or superior to ours. Continued decreases in the price of demand response capacity by our competitors could result in a loss of electric power grid operator and utility customers or a decrease in the growth of our business, or it may require us to lower our prices for capacity to remain competitive, which would result in reduced revenues and lower profit margins and would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Continued increases in the percentage or fixed amount paid to C&I customers by our competitors for making capacity available could result in a loss of C&I customers or a decrease in the growth of our business. It also may require us to increase the percentage or fixed amount we pay to our C&I customers to remain competitive, which would result in increases in the cost of revenues and lower profit margins and would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Our business is subject to government regulation and may become subject to modified or new government regulation, which may negatively impact our ability to sell and market our EIS and related solutions, services and products. While the electric power markets in which we operate are regulated, most of our business is not directly subject to the regulatory framework applicable to the generation and transmission of electricity, with the exception of Celerity, which exports power to the electric power grid and is thus subject to direct regulation by FERC and its regulations related to the sale of wholesale power at market based rates. However, we may become directly subject to the regulation of FERC to the extent we are deemed to own, operate, or control generation used to make wholesale sales of power or provide ancillary services that involve a sale of electric energy or capacity for resale, or the export of power to the electric power grid. In addition, FERC has specified that when a demand response resource makes sales of energy for resale, the resource may become subject to direct regulation by FERC. Although we do not expect any further clarification by FERC of its jurisdiction over demand response activities to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, we may become subject to other new or modified government regulations that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The installation of devices or the activation of electric generators used in providing our EIS and related solutions, services and products may be subject to governmental oversight and regulation under state and local ordinances relating to building codes, public safety regulations pertaining to electrical connections, security protocols, and local and state licensing requirements. In a relatively few instances, we have agreed to own and operate a back-up generator at a C&I customer site for a period of time and to activate the generator when capacity is called for dispatch so that the C&I customer can reduce its consumption of electricity from the electric power grid. These generators are ineligible to participate in demand response programs in certain regions, and in others they may become ineligible to participate in the future or may be compensated less for such participation, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely affecting our financial condition. In addition, certain of our utility contracts and expansion of existing utility contracts are subject to approval by federal, state, provincial or local regulatory agencies. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained or be issued on a timely basis, if at all. Additionally, federal, state, provincial or local governmental entities may seek to change existing regulations, impose additional regulations or change their interpretation of the applicability of existing regulations. Any modified or new government regulation applicable to our current or future EIS and related solutions, services and products, whether at the federal, state, provincial or local level, may negatively impact the installation, servicing and marketing of, and increase our costs and the price related to, our EIS and related solutions, services and products. In addition, despite our efforts to manage compliance with any other regulations to which we are subject, we may be found to be in non-compliance with such regulations and therefore subject to penalties or fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure of third parties to manufacture or install quality products or provide reliable services in a timely manner or at all could cause delays in the delivery of our EIS and related solutions, services and products, or could result in a failure to provide accurate data to our electric power grid operator and utility customers, which could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers and have a material adverse effect on our business results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality, reliable, and secure EIS and related solutions, services and products in a timely manner, which in part requires the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned, operated, installed or manufactured by third parties upon which we depend. For example, our reliance on third parties includes: • utilizing components that we or third parties install or have installed at C&I customer sites; • relying on metering information provided by third parties to accurately and reliably provide customer data to our electric power grid operator and utility customers; 20 Table of Contents • outsourcing email notification and cellular and paging wireless communications that are used to notify our C&I customers of their need to reduce electricity consumption at a particular time and to execute instructions to devices installed at our C&I customer sites that are programmed to automatically reduce consumption on receipt of such secure communications; and • outsourcing certain installation and maintenance operations to third-party providers. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products, services or operations could adversely affect the reliability or operation of our EIS and related solutions, services and products, which could cause us to experience difficulty monitoring or retaining current customers and attracting new customers. Any errors in metering information provided to us by third parties, including electric power grid operators and utilities, could also adversely affect the customer data that we provide to our electric power grid operator and utility customers. Such delays and errors could result in an overpayment or underpayment to us and our C&I customers from our electric power grid operator and utility customers, which in some instances may cause us to violate certain market rules and require us to make refunds to our electric power grid operator and utility customers and pay associated penalties or fines. In addition, in such instances our brand, reputation and growth could be negatively impacted. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our operating expenses and cost of sales do not correspond with the timing of our revenues. Most of our operating expenses, such as employee compensation and rental expense for properties, are either relatively fixed in the short-term or incurred in advance of sales. Moreover, our spending levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, if revenues for a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. For example, if a demand response event or metering and verification test does not occur in a particular quarter, we may not be able to recognize revenues for the undemonstrated capacity in that quarter. This shortfall in revenues could adversely affect our operating results for that quarter and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. We incur significant up-front costs associated with the expansion of the number of MW and the infrastructure necessary to enable those MW. In most of the markets in which we originally focused our growth, we generally begin earning revenues from our MW shortly after enablement. However, in certain forward capacity markets in which we participate or may choose to participate in the future, it may take longer for us to begin earning revenues from MW that we enable, in some cases up to a year after enablement. For example, the PJM forward capacity market, which is a market from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, operates on a June to May program-year basis, which means that a MW that we enable after June of each year will typically not be recognized until September of the following year. The up-front costs we incur to expand our MW in PJM and other similar markets, coupled with the delay in receiving revenues from those MW, could adversely affect our operating results and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. We operate in highly competitive markets; if we are unable to compete successfully, we could lose market share and revenues. The market for EIS and related solutions, services and products is fragmented. Some traditional providers of advanced metering infrastructure services have added, or may add, demand response or other EIS and related solutions, services and products to their existing business. We face strong competition from other energy management service providers, both larger and smaller than we are. We also compete against traditional supply-side resources such as natural gas-fired peaking power plants. In addition, utilities and competitive electricity suppliers offer their own EIS and related solutions, services and products, which could decrease our base of potential customers and revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do. Our competitors could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competing business model or develop 21 Table of Contents products or services that are more attractive to potential customers than what we offer. Some advanced metering infrastructure service providers, for example, are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the ability to combine advanced metering and demand response services into an integrated offering to a large, existing customer base. Our competitors may offer EIS and related solutions, services and products at prices below cost or even for free in order to improve their competitive positions. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete, and reduce our market share and revenues, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may also face competition based on technological developments that reduce peak demand for electricity, increase power supplies through existing infrastructure or that otherwise compete with our EIS and related solutions, services and products. If the actual amount of demand response capacity that we make available under our capacity commitments is less than required, our committed capacity could be reduced and we could be required to make refunds or pay penalty fees, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We provide demand response capacity to our electric power grid operator and utility customers either under utility contracts or under terms established in open market bidding programs where capacity is purchased. Under the utility contracts and open market bidding programs, electric power grid operators and utilities make periodic payments to us based on the amount of demand response capacity that we are obligated to make available to them during the contract period, or make periodic payments to us based on the amount of demand response capacity that we bid to make available to them during the relevant period. We refer to these payments as committed capacity payments. Committed capacity is negotiated and established by the utility contract or set in the open market bidding process and is subject to subsequent confirmation by measurement and verification tests or performance in a demand response event. In our open market bidding programs, we offer different amounts of committed capacity to our electric power grid operator and utility customers based on market rules on a periodic basis. We refer to measured and verified capacity as our demonstrated or proven capacity. Once demonstrated, the proven capacity amounts typically establish a baseline of capacity for each C&I customer site in our portfolio, on which committed capacity payments are calculated going forward and until the next demand response event or measurement and verification test when we are called upon to make capacity available. Under some of our utility contracts and in certain open market bidding programs, any difference between our demonstrated capacity and the committed capacity on which capacity payments were previously made will result in either a refund payment from us to our electric power grid operator or utility customer or an additional payment to us by such customer. Any refund payable by us would reduce our deferred revenues, but would not impact our previously recognized revenues. If there is a refund payment due to an electric power grid operator or utility customer, we generally make a corresponding adjustment in our payments to the C&I customer or customers who failed to make the appropriate level of capacity available, however we are sometimes unable to do so. In addition, some of our utility contracts with, and open market programs established by, our electric power grid operator and utility customers provide for penalty payments, which could be substantial, in certain circumstances in which we do not meet our capacity commitments, either in measurement and verification tests or in demand response events. Further, because measurement and verification test results for some utility contracts and in certain open market bidding programs establish capacity levels on which payments will be made until the next measurement and verification test or demand response event, the payments to be made to us under these utility contracts and open market bidding programs could be reduced until the level of capacity is established at the next measurement and verification test or demand response event. We could experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results in future periods due to any refund or penalty payments, capacity payment adjustments, replacement costs or other payments made to our electric power grid operator or utility customers, which could be substantial. We incurred aggregate net penalty payments of $0.8 million, $1.9 million, and $0.7 million during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to achieve our committed capacity depends on the performance of our C&I customers, and the failure of these customers to make the appropriate levels of capacity available when called upon could cause us to make refund payments to, or incur penalties imposed by, our electric power grid operator and utility customers. The capacity level that we are able to achieve is dependent upon the ability of our C&I customers to curtail their energy usage when called upon by us during a demand response event or a measurement and verification test. Certain demand response programs in which we currently participate or choose to participate in the future may have rigorous requirements, making it difficult for our C&I customers to perform when called upon by us. For example, if PJM dispatches a measurement and verification test and our C&I customers fail to perform or perform in a deficient manner, we may be subject to substantial penalties given that we have enrolled a significant number of MW in the PJM demand response market. In the event that our C&I customers are unable to perform or perform at levels below which they agreed to perform, we may be unable to achieve our committed capacity levels and may be subject to the refunds or penalties described in the risk factor above, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The capacity level that we are able to achieve also varies with the electricity demand of targeted equipment, such as heating and cooling equipment, at the time a C&I customer is called to perform. Accordingly, our ability to deliver committed capacity depends on factors beyond our control, such as the temperature and humidity, and then-current electricity use by our C&I customers when those C&I customers are called to perform. The correct operation of, and timely communication with, devices used to control equipment are also important factors that affect available capacity. If we fail to successfully educate existing and potential electric power grid operator and utility customers regarding the benefits of our EIS and related solutions, services and products or a market otherwise fails to develop for those applications, services and products, our ability to sell our EIS and related solutions, services and products and grow our business could be limited. Our future success depends on commercial acceptance of our EIS and related solutions, services and products and our ability to enter into additional utility contracts and new open market bidding programs. We anticipate that revenues related to our demand response application and services will constitute a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. The market for EIS and related solutions, services and products in general is relatively new. If we are unable to educate our potential customers about the advantages of our EIS and related solutions, services and products over competing products and services, or our existing customers no longer rely on our EIS and related solutions, services and products, our ability to sell our EIS and related solutions, services and products will be limited. In addition, because the EIS and related solutions, services and products sector is rapidly evolving, we cannot accurately assess the size of the market, and we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. For example, we may have difficulty predicting customer needs and developing EIS and related solutions, services and products that address those needs. Further, we are subject to the risk that the current global economic and market conditions will result in lower overall demand for electricity in the United States and other markets that we are seeking to penetrate over the next few years. Such a reduction in the demand for electricity could create a corresponding reduction in both supply-and demand-side resources being implemented by electric power grid operators and utilities. If the market for our EIS and related solutions, services and products does not continue to develop, our ability to grow our business could be limited and we may not be able to operate profitably. We expect to continue to expand our sales and marketing, operations, and research and development capabilities, as well as our financial and reporting systems, and as a result we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to experience continued growth in the number of our employees and significant growth in the scope of our operations. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational, financial and reporting systems, improve our internal controls, procedures and compliance programs, expand our facilities, and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. Due to our 23 Table of Contents limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, implement sufficient internal controls, procedures or compliance programs, or recruit and adequately train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. We allocate our operations, sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative, and financial resources based on our business plan, which includes assumptions about current and future utility contracts and open market programs with electric power grid operator and utility customers, current and future contracts with C&I customers, variable prices in open market programs for demand response capacity, the development of ancillary services markets which enable demand response as a revenue generating resource and a variety of other factors relating to electricity markets, and the resulting demand for our EIS and related solutions, services and products. However, these factors are uncertain. If our assumptions regarding these factors prove to be incorrect or if alternatives to those offered by our EIS and related solutions, services and products gain further acceptance, then actual demand for our EIS and related solutions, services and products could be significantly less than the demand we anticipate and we may not be able to sustain our revenue growth or return to profitability in future periods. We may require significant additional capital to pursue our growth strategy, but we may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. The growth of our business will depend on substantial amounts of additional capital for posting financial assurances in order to enter into utility contracts and open market bidding programs with electric power grid operators and utilities, and marketing and product development of our EIS and related solutions, services and products. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of our revenue and sales growth, our introduction of new EIS and related solutions, services and products and enhancements to our existing EIS and related solutions, services and products, and our expansion of sales and marketing and product development activities. In addition, we may consider strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies to grow our business, which could require significant capital and could increase our capital expenditures related to future operation of the acquired business or technology. Because of our historical losses, we do not fit traditional credit lending criteria. Moreover, the financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets in recent years has resulted in a reduction in the availability of credit in the credit markets, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional funding. We may not be able to obtain loans or additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, or if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations and meet our strategic objectives. Our continued success depends upon the continued availability, contributions, vision, skills, experience and effort of our senior management, sales and marketing, research and development, and operations teams. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our senior management team, but none of these agreements guarantees the services of the individual for a specified period of time. All of the employment arrangements with our key personnel, including the members of our senior management team, provide that employment is at-will and may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives. We rely on our research and development team to research, design and develop new and enhanced EIS and related solutions, services and products. We rely on our operations team to install, test, deliver and manage our EIS and related solutions, services and products. We rely on our sales and marketing team to sell our EIS and related solutions, services and products to our customers, build our brand and promote our company. The loss or interruption of the service of members of our senior management, sales and marketing, research and development, or operations teams, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or advisors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could significantly reduce our ability to manage our operations and implement our strategy. 24 Table of Contents An inability to protect our intellectual property could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon the maintenance and protection of the intellectual property related to our EIS and related solutions, services and products. We hold a few patents and numerous trademarks and copyrights. Patent protection is unavailable for certain aspects of the technology and operational processes that are important to our business. Any patent held by us or to be issued to us, or any of our pending patent applications, could be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable or circumvented. Moreover, some of our trademarks which are not in use may become available to others. To date, we have relied principally on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws, as well as confidentiality and proprietary information agreements and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property. However, we have not obtained confidentiality and proprietary information agreements from all of our customers and vendors, and although we have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with all of our employees, we cannot be certain that these agreements will be honored. Some of our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may not be in writing, and some customers are subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing our rights against unauthorized use. The steps that we have taken or may take may not prevent misappropriation of the intellectual property on which we rely. In addition, effective protection may be unavailable or limited in jurisdictions outside the United States, as the intellectual property laws of foreign countries sometimes offer less protection or have onerous filing requirements. From time to time, third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or protect our rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs, divert resources away from our daily operations and result in the impairment of our intellectual property. Failure to adequately enforce our rights could cause us to lose rights in our intellectual property and may negatively affect our business. We may be subject to damaging and disruptive intellectual property litigation related to allegations that our EIS and related solutions, services and products infringe on intellectual property held by others, which could result in the loss of use of those applications, services and products. Third-party patent applications and patents may relate to our EIS and related solutions, services and products. As a result, third-parties may in the future make infringement and other allegations that could subject us to intellectual property litigation relating to our EIS and related solutions, services and products, which litigation could be time-consuming and expensive, divert attention and resources away from our daily operations, impede or prevent delivery of our EIS and related solutions, services and products, and require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. In addition, parties making infringement and other claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our EIS and related solutions, services and products and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, or at all. If our information technology systems fail to adequately gather, assess and protect data used in providing our EIS and related solutions, services and products, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively control the devices which enable our EIS and related solutions, services and products, gather and assess data used in providing our EIS and related solutions, services and products, manage relationships with our customers, and maintain our research and development data. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and product development and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to demand response events. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers; 25 Table of Contents • power loss; and • computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption in the operation of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenues under our contracts and commitments, reduced profit margins on revenues where fixed payments are due to our C&I customers, reductions in our demonstrated capacity levels going forward, customer dissatisfaction and lawsuits and could subject us to penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any internal or external security breaches involving our EIS and related solutions, services and products, and even the perception of security risks involving our EIS and related solutions, services and products or the transmission of data over the Internet, whether or not valid, could harm our reputation and inhibit market acceptance of our EIS and related solutions, services and products and cause us to lose customers. We use our EIS and related solutions, services and products to compile and analyze sensitive or confidential information related to our customers. In addition, some of our EIS and related solutions, services and products allow us to remotely control equipment at C&I customer sites. Our EIS and related solutions, services and products rely on the secure transmission of proprietary data over the Internet for some of this functionality. Well-publicized compromises of Internet security, or cyberattacks, could have the effect of substantially reducing confidence in the Internet as a medium of data transmission. The occurrence or perception of security breaches in our EIS and related solutions, services and products or our customers’ concerns about Internet security or the security of our EIS and related solutions, services and products, whether or not they are warranted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, harm our reputation, inhibit market acceptance of our EIS and related solutions, services and products and cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may come into contact with sensitive consumer information or data when we perform operational, installation or maintenance functions for our customers. Even the perception that we have improperly handled sensitive, confidential information could have a negative effect on our business. If, in handling this information, we fail to comply with privacy or security laws, we could incur civil liability to government agencies, customers and individuals whose privacy is compromised. In addition, third parties may attempt to breach our security or inappropriately use our EIS and related solutions, services and products, particularly as we grow our business, through computer viruses, electronic break-ins and other disruptions. We may also face a security breach or electronic break-in by one of our employees or former employees. If a breach is successful, confidential information may be improperly obtained, and we may be subject to lawsuits and other liabilities. Global economic and credit market conditions, and any associated impact on spending by electric power grid operators and utilities or on the continued operations of our C&I customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets in recent years have led to a significant reduction in the availability of business credit, decreased liquidity, a contraction of consumer credit, business failures, higher unemployment, and declines in consumer confidence and spending in the United States and internationally. If global economic and financial market conditions deteriorate or remain weak for an extended period of time, numerous economic and financial factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, including: • decreased spending by electric power grid operators or utilities, or by end-users of electricity, may result in reduced demand for our EIS and related solutions, services and products; • consumer demand for electricity may be reduced, which could result in lower prices for both demand-side and supply-side capacity pursuant to utility contracts and in open market programs with electric power grid operators and utilities; 26 Table of Contents • if C&I customers in our demand response network experience financial difficulty, some may cease or reduce business operations, or reduce their electricity usage, all of which could reduce the number of MW of demand response capacity under our management; • we may be unable to find suitable investments that are safe, liquid, and provide a reasonable return, which could result in lower interest income or longer investment horizons, and disruptions to capital markets or the banking system may also impair the value of investments or bank deposits we currently consider safe or liquid; • if our C&I customers to whom we provide our EfficiencySMART or SupplySMART applications and services experience financial difficulty, it could result in their inability to timely meet their payment obligations to us, extended payment terms, higher accounts receivable, reduced cash flows, greater expense associated with collection efforts, and an increase in charges for uncollectable receivables; and • due to stricter lending standards, C&I customers to whom we offer our SupplySMART application and services may be unable to obtain adequate credit ratings acceptable to electricity suppliers, resulting in increased costs, which might make our SupplySMART application and services less attractive or result in their inability to contract with us for SupplySMART. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of our stock price. Electric power industry sales cycles can be lengthy and unpredictable and require significant employee time and financial resources with no assurances that we will realize revenues. Sales cycles with electric power grid operator and utility customers are generally long and unpredictable. The electric power grid operators and utilities that are our potential customers generally have extended budgeting, procurement and regulatory approval processes. They also tend to be risk averse and tend to follow industry trends rather than be the first to purchase new products or services, which can extend the lead time for or prevent acceptance of new products or services such as our EIS and related solutions, services and products. Accordingly, our potential electric power grid operator and utility customers may take longer to reach a decision to purchase services. This extended sales process requires the dedication of significant time by our personnel and our use of significant financial resources, with no certainty of success or recovery of our related expenses. It is not unusual for an electric power grid operator or utility customer to go through the entire sales process and not accept any proposal or quote. Long and unpredictable sales cycles with electric power grid operator and utility customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to potential risks and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 and assessed all deficiencies on both an individual basis and in combination to determine if, when aggregated, they constitute a material weakness. As a result of this evaluation, no material weaknesses were identified. We expect to continue to incur significant costs, including increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels, in order to maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We continue to monitor controls for any weaknesses or deficiencies. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, as we continue to expand globally, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal controls will increase and will require that we continue to improve our internal controls over financial reporting. In the future, if we fail to complete the Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting, which also may result in a loss of 27 Table of Contents public confidence in our internal controls and adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, any failure to implement required, new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Our ability to provide security deposits or letters of credit is limited and could negatively affect our ability to bid on or enter into utility contracts or arrangements with electric power grid operators and utilities. We are increasingly required to provide security deposits in the form of cash to secure our performance under utility contracts or open market bidding programs with our electric power grid operator and utility customers. In addition, some of our electric power grid operator or utility customers require collateral in the form of letters of credit to secure our performance or to fund possible damages or penalty payments resulting from our failure to make available capacity at agreed upon levels or any other event of default by us. Our ability to obtain such letters of credit primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and reputation and external factors beyond our control, including the overall capacity of the credit market. Events that affect credit markets generally may result in letters of credit becoming more difficult to obtain in the future, or being available only at a significantly greater cost. As of December 31, 2013, we had $49.2 million of letters of credit outstanding under the 2013 credit facility, leaving $20.8 million available under this facility for additional letters of credit. Furthermore, if it is determined that we are in default of our covenants under the 2013 credit facility, then any amounts outstanding under the 2012 credit facility would become immediately due and payable and we would be required to collateralize with cash any outstanding letters of credit up to 105% of the amounts outstanding. We may be required, from time to time, to seek alternative sources of security deposits or letters of credit, which may be expensive and difficult to obtain, if available at all. Our inability to obtain letters of credit and, as a result, to bid or enter into utility contracts or arrangements with electric power grid operators or utilities, could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects. In addition, in the event that we default under our utility contracts or open market bidding programs with our electric power grid operator and utility customers pursuant to which we have posted collateral, we may lose a portion or all of such collateral, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for United States federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. The number of shares of our common stock that we issued in our initial public offering, or IPO, and follow-on public offerings, together with any subsequent shares of stock we issue, may be sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, as we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-ownership change net operating loss carryforwards to offset United States federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. To date, although we have been able to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset the maximum amount of taxable income allowed by the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, we may not be able to utilize some or all of these net operating losses in the future. If the software systems we use in providing our EIS and related solutions, services and products or the manual implementation of such systems produce inaccurate information or is incompatible with the systems used by our customers, it could preclude us from providing our EIS and related solutions, services and products, which could lead to a loss of revenues and trigger penalty payments. Our software is complex and, accordingly, may contain undetected errors or failures when introduced or subsequently modified. Software defects or inaccurate data may cause incorrect recording, reporting or display of information about the level of demand reduction at a C&I customer site, which could cause us to fail to meet our commitments to have capacity available or could result in an overpayment or underpayment to us and our C&I customers by our electric power grid operator and utility customer. Any such failures could also cause us to be 28 Table of Contents subject to penalty payments to our electric power grid operator and utility customers, cause a reduction in our revenue in the period that any adjustment is identified and result in reductions in capacity payments under utility contracts and open market bidding programs in subsequent periods. In addition, such defects and inaccurate data may prevent us from successfully providing our portfolio of additional EIS and related solutions, services and products, which would result in lost revenues. Software defects or inaccurate data may lead to customer dissatisfaction and our customers may seek to hold us liable for any damages incurred. As a result, we could lose customers, our reputation could be harmed and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We currently serve a C&I customer base that uses a wide variety of constantly changing hardware, software applications and operating systems. Building control, process control and metering systems frequently reside on non-standard operating systems. Our EIS and related solutions, services and products need to interface with these non-standard systems in order to gather and assess data and to implement changes in electricity consumption. Our business depends on the following factors, among others: • our ability to integrate our technology with new and existing hardware and software systems, including metering, building control, process control, and distributed generation systems; • our ability to anticipate and support new standards, especially Internet-based standards and building control and metering system protocol languages; and • our ability to integrate additional software modules under development with our existing technology and operational processes. If we are unable to adequately address any of these factors, our results of operations and prospects for growth could be materially adversely effected. We may face certain product liability or warranty claims if we disrupt our customers’ networks or applications. For some of our current and planned applications our software and hardware is integrated with our C&I customers’ networks and software applications. The integration of our software and hardware may entail the risk of product liability or warranty claims based on disruption or security breaches to these networks or applications. In addition, the failure of our software and hardware to perform to customer expectations could give rise to warranty claims against us. Any of these claims, even if without merit, could result in costly litigation or divert management’s attention and resources. Although we carry general liability insurance, our current insurance coverage could be insufficient to protect us from all liability that may be imposed under these types of claims. A material product liability claim may seriously harm our results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies in which we conduct our business, in relation to the U.S. dollar, could harm our business and prospects. We maintain sales and service offices outside the United States. The expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies. In addition, our foreign sales may be denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues, cost of revenues and profit margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency. In the last few years we have not hedged foreign currency exposures, but we may in the future hedge foreign currency denominated sales. There is a risk that any hedging activities will not be successful in mitigating our foreign exchange risk exposure and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. An adverse change in the projected cash flows from our acquired businesses or the business climate in which they operate, including the continuation of the current financial and economic turmoil, could require us to incur an impairment charge, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results. We periodically review the carrying value of the goodwill and other long-lived assets reflected in our financial statements to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that 29 Table of Contents would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. Conditions that would indicate impairment and necessitate a revaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. If the carrying value of an asset is determined to be impaired we will write-down the carrying value of the intangible asset to its fair value in the period identified. We generally calculate fair value as the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $94.3 million of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. As of November 30, 2012, which is our annual impairment test date, the fair value of our reporting units exceeded the book value of their corresponding net assets and as such, there was no indication of a goodwill impairment. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, we had no indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our market capitalization was greater than the book value of our net assets as of December 31, 2012. We will continue to monitor our market capitalization compared to the book value of our net assets. It is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic turmoil could negatively affect our anticipated cash flows, or the discount rate that is applied to valuing those cash flows, which could require an interim impairment test of goodwill. Any impairment test could result in a material impairment charge that would have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect our quarterly revenues and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail in future periods to meet our publicly announced financial guidance or the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary from quarter to quarter in the future. Accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may be misleading. The results of one quarter should not be used as an indication of future performance. We provide public guidance on our expected results of operations for future periods. This guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and in our other public filings and public statements, and is based necessarily on assumptions we make at the time we provide such guidance. Our revenues and operating results may fail to meet our previously stated financial guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors in some quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet such expectations or our financial guidance could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary depending on a number of factors, including: • demand for and acceptance of our EIS and related solutions, services and products; • the seasonality of our demand response business in certain of the markets in which we operate, where revenues recognized under certain utility contracts and pursuant to certain open market bidding programs can be higher or concentrated in particular seasons and months; • changes in open market bidding program rules and reductions in pricing for demand response capacity; • delays in the implementation and delivery of our EIS and related solutions, services and products, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues; • delays or reductions in spending for EIS and related solutions, services and products by our electric power grid operator or utility customers and potential customers; • the long lead time associated with securing new customer contracts; • the structure of any forward capacity market in which we participate, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues related to that market; • the mix of our revenues during any period, particularly on a regional basis, since local fees recognized as revenues for demand response capacity tend to vary according to the level of available capacity in given regions; 30 Table of Contents • the termination or expiration of existing contracts with electric power grid operator, utility and C&I customers; • the potential interruptions of our customers’ operations; • development of new relationships and maintenance and enhancement of existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; • temporary capacity programs that could be implemented by electric power grid operators and utilities to address short-term capacity deficiencies; • the imposition of penalties or the reversal of deferred revenue due to our failure to meet a capacity commitment; • the elimination, modification or flawed design of, or our decision not to participate or to reduce our participation in, any demand response program in which we currently participate; • global economic and credit market conditions; and • increased expenditures for sales and marketing, software development and other corporate activities. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Prior to our IPO, there was not a public market for our common stock. There is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price; however, since our common stock began trading on The NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, on May 18, 2007 through December 31, 2013, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $4.80 to a high of $50.50. During the year ended December 31, 2013, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $11.50 to a high of $19.08. Furthermore, the stock market has continued to experience significant volatility. The volatility of stocks for companies in the energy and technology industry often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • demand for and acceptance of our management applications, services and products; • our ability to develop new relationships and maintain and enhance existing relationships with customers and strategic partners; • changes in open market bidding program rules and reductions in pricing for demand response capacity; • the termination or expiration of existing contracts with electric power grid operator, utility and C&I customers; • general market conditions and overall fluctuations in equity markets in the United States; • the elimination, modification or flawed design of, or our decision not to participate or to reduce our participation in, any demand response program in which we currently participate; • introduction of technological innovations or new EIS and related solutions, services or products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly revenues and operating results; • the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts that cover our common stock; • delays in the implementation and delivery of our EIS and related solutions, services and products, which may impact the timing of our recognition of revenues; • litigation or regulatory enforcement actions; • changes in the regulations affecting our industry in the United States and internationally; 31 Table of Contents • the way in which we recognize revenues and the timing associated with our recognition of revenues; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; • the potential interruptions of our customers’ operations; • the seasonality of our demand response business in certain of the markets in which we operate; • failure to secure adequate capital to fund our operations, or the future sale or issuance of equity securities at prices below fair market price or in general; and • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. Our stock price has been particularly volatile recently and may continue to be volatile in the near term and we could incur substantial costs defending any lawsuit brought against us by any of our stockholders. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the development, operation and growth of our business. In addition, the 2013 credit facility prohibits us from paying dividends and future loan agreements may also prohibit the payment of dividends. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, and of some of our employment arrangements, may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult and could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change of control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which we may have otherwise received a premium on our shares of common stock. These provisions also could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • establish a classified board of directors, providing that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • authorize our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; 32 Table of Contents • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings, which were modified in February 2014; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 75% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Some of our employment arrangements and equity agreements provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of equity awards, upon a change of control. These provisions may discourage or prevent a change of control. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a proscribed period of time. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will continue to depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If these analysts do not continue to provide adequate research coverage or if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, require significant resources, increase our costs and distract our management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with equity securities listed on NASDAQ, we must comply with statutes and regulations of the SEC and the requirements of NASDAQ. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of the time of our board of directors and management and significantly increases our costs and expenses. In addition, as a public company we incur substantial costs to obtain director and officer liability insurance policies. These factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 