ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to our business activities. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, these risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and impair our ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. In that case, the market price of our limited partner units could decline. Risks Inherent in Our Dependence on Distributions from MMP Our only cash-generating asset is our ownership interest in MMP’s general partner, which owns the general partner interest and 100% of the incentive distribution rights in MMP, and our cash flow is therefore completely dependent upon the ability of MMP to make cash distributions to its partners. The amount of cash that MMP can distribute to its partners each quarter, including us, principally depends upon the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • demand for the petroleum products that MMP transports, stores and distributes; • hazards or operational risks, some of which may not be covered by insurance; • fluctuations in prices of petroleum products and natural gas liquids; • FERC rate regulation or a successful challenge to the rates MMP charges on its petroleum products pipeline system; • the level of competition from other midstream companies; and 18 • our continued success in our operation and management of MMP through our ownership of its general partner. In addition, the actual amount of cash MMP has available for distribution depends on other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including: • the level of capital expenditures it makes; • the availability, if any, and cost of acquisitions; • debt service requirements; • fluctuations in working capital needs; • MMP’s ability to make working capital borrowings under its revolving credit agreement to make distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by MMP’s general partner in its discretion for the proper conduct of MMP’s business. Because of these factors, MMP may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay its quarterly distribution at current levels. The amount of cash that MMP has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, MMP may be able to make cash distributions during periods when MMP records losses and may not be able to make cash distributions during periods when MMP records net income. We may not have sufficient cash to pay our current quarterly distribution or to increase distributions. Because our primary source of operating cash flow consists of cash distributions from MMP, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions MMP makes to its partners, including us. We cannot guarantee that MMP will continue to make quarterly distributions at its current level or any other amount, or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if MMP increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of such changes in distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of any changes in distributions made by MMP to us. Factors such as reserves established by the board of directors of our general partner for G&A expenses and operating expenses, reserves to satisfy our debt service requirements, if any, and reserves for future distributions by us may affect the distributions we make to our unitholders. Prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses incurred by them on our behalf. Our general partner determines the amount of these reimbursed expenses. The reimbursement of these expenses, in addition to the other factors listed above, could adversely affect the amount of distributions we make to our unitholders. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to pay distributions or that any distributions MMP does pay to us will allow us to pay distributions. The actual amount of cash that is available to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions depends on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control or the control of our general partner. MMP’s practice of distributing all of its available cash may limit its ability to grow, which could impact distributions to us and the available cash that we have to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions. Since our only cash-generating asset is our ownership interest in MMP’s general partner, which owns the general partner interest and incentive distribution rights in MMP, our growth is dependent upon MMP’s ability to increase its quarterly cash distributions. Consistent with the terms of its partnership agreement, MMP distributes to its partners most of the cash generated by its operations. As a result, it relies primarily upon external financing 19 sources, including debt and equity issuances, to fund its significant acquisitions and expansion capital expenditures. Accordingly, to the extent MMP is unable to finance growth externally, its ability to grow will be impaired because it distributes substantially all of its available cash. If MMP issues additional units and is unable to maintain its distribution level, the cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders could decrease. In addition, if MMP incurs additional indebtedness to finance its growth, the increased interest expense associated with such indebtedness may reduce the amount of available cash that we can distribute. We may limit or modify the incentive distributions we are entitled to receive in order to facilitate MMP’s growth strategy. Our general partner’s board of directors can give this consent without a vote of our unitholders. We own the incentive distribution rights in MMP that entitle us to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48%, of any incremental cash distributed per MMP limited partner unit by MMP as certain target distribution levels are reached in excess of $0.288750 per MMP unit in any quarter. A substantial portion of the cash flow we receive from MMP is provided by these incentive distribution rights. MMP’s board of directors may reduce the incentive distribution rights payable to us with our consent, which we may provide without the approval of our unitholders. Risks Inherent in MMP’s Business Because we are substantially dependent on the distributions we receive from MMP, risks to MMP’s operations are also risks to us. We have set forth below risks to MMP’s business and operations, the occurrence of which could negatively impact its financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distribute to us. MMP’s financial results depend on the demand for the petroleum products that it transports, stores and distributes. Any sustained decrease in demand for petroleum products in the markets served by MMP’s assets could result in a significant reduction in the volume of products that MMP transports in its pipelines, stores at its marine terminals and distributes through its inland terminals, and thereby reduce its cash flow and its ability to pay cash distributions. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include: • an increase in the market price of petroleum products, which may reduce demand for gasoline and other petroleum products. Market prices for petroleum products are subject to wide fluctuation in response to changes in global and regional supply over which MMP has no control; • a recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by consumers and businesses on transportation fuels such as gasoline, aviation fuel and diesel; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase the cost of the products we handle; • an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles, technological advances by manufacturers or federal or state regulations; and • the increase in the use of alternative fuel sources, such as biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel, fuel cells and solar, electric and battery-powered engines. Current laws will require a significant increase in the quantity of biofuels used in transportation fuels over the next 15 years. Such increase could have a material impact on the volume of fuels transported on our pipeline or loaded at our terminals. MMP’s business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be covered by insurance. MMP’s operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the transportation and distribution of petroleum products and ammonia, including weather-related or other natural causes, ruptures, leaks and fires. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of 20 property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of its related operations. MMP is not fully insured against all risks incident to its business. In addition, as a result of market conditions, premiums for its insurance policies could increase significantly. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect MMP’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows and its ability to pay cash distributions. Fluctuations in prices of refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids could materially affect MMP’s earnings. A third-party supply agreement MMP assumed in connection with the acquisition of certain pipeline and terminal assets during October 2004 requires that MMP purchase and maintain certain inventories of petroleum products. In addition, MMP maintains product inventory related to its petroleum products blending and fractionation operations, as well as in connection with the operation of its pipeline and terminals. Significant fluctuations in market prices of petroleum products could result in losses or lower profits from these operations, thereby reducing the amount of cash MMP generates and its ability to pay cash distributions. MMP sometimes negotiates agreements with a customer pursuant to which it charges storage rental and throughput fees based on discounted rates plus a variable fee, which was based on a percentage of the net profits from certain trading activities conducted by its customer. MMP recognizes revenues for the variable fees from these agreements at the end of the contract terms. During 2006 and 2007, MMP recognized revenues from variable-rate fee agreements of $9.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively. MMP has negotiated similar agreements pursuant to which it will receive a share of any net trading profits above a specified amount during 2008, but it will not share in any net trading losses. The trading activities upon which MMP’s variable-rate fees are based involve substantial risks. As a result, MMP’s share of the variable-rate revenues from such agreements in 2008 could be zero. Rate regulation or a successful challenge to the rates MMP charges on its petroleum products pipeline system may reduce the amount of cash it generates. The FERC regulates the tariff rates for interstate movements on MMP’s petroleum products pipeline system. Shippers may protest MMP’s pipeline tariff filings, and the FERC may investigate new or changed tariff rates. Further, other than for rates set under market-based rate authority, the FERC may order refunds of amounts collected under rates that were in excess of a just and reasonable level when taking into consideration its pipeline system’s cost of service. In addition, shippers may challenge the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. The FERC may also investigate such rates absent shipper complaint. The FERC’s ratemaking methodologies may limit MMP’s ability to set rates based on its true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. The FERC’s primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. MMP uses this methodology to establish its rates in approximately 40% of its interstate markets. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates to the new ceiling level by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.3%. If the PPI-FG falls, MMP could be required to reduce its rates that are based on the FERC’s price indexing methodology if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. The FERC’s indexing methodology is subject to a five-year review, and in March 2006, the FERC approved the methodology of PPI-FG plus 1.3% for the annual adjustment related to the next five-year period, commencing July 1, 2006. Changes in PPI-FG plus 1.3% might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with the pipelines subject to indexing, which would impair MMP’s ability to recover costs associated with its indexed-based rates. The potential for a challenge to MMP’s indexed rates creates the risk that the FERC might find some of MMP’s indexed rates to be in excess of a just and reasonable level—that is, a level justified by MMP’s cost of service. In such an event, the FERC would order MMP to reduce any such rates and could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. 21 MMP establishes rates in approximately 60% of its interstate markets using the FERC’s market-based ratemaking regulations. These regulations allow MMP to establish rates based on conditions in individual markets without regard to the index or its cost of service. If MMP were to lose its market-based rate authority, it would then be required to establish rates on some other basis such as its cost of service. Any reduction in the indexed rates, removal of its ability to establish market-based rates, change in the treatment of income tax allowances or payment of reparations could have a material adverse effect on MMP’s results of operations and reduce the amount of cash it generates. The outcome of certain FERC proceedings involving FERC policy statements is uncertain and could affect the amount of cash MMP generates. In May 2005, the FERC adopted a policy statement (“Policy Statement”), stating that it would permit entities owning public utility assets, including oil pipelines, to include an income tax allowance in such utilities’ cost-of-service rates to reflect actual or potential tax liability attributable to their public utility income, regardless of the form of ownership. Pursuant to the Policy Statement, a tax pass-through entity seeking such an income tax allowance would have to establish that its partners or members have an actual or potential income tax obligation on the entity’s public utility income. In December 2006, FERC issued another order addressing income tax allowance in rates, in which it reaffirmed prior statements regarding its income tax allowance policy, but raised a new issue regarding the implications of the Policy Statement for publicly traded partnerships. FERC noted that the tax deferral features of a publicly traded partnership may cause some investors to receive, for some indeterminate duration, cash distributions in excess of their taxable income, creating an opportunity for those investors to earn additional return, funded by ratepayers. Responding to this concern, FERC adjusted the equity rate of return of the pipeline at issue downward based on the percentage by which the publicly traded partnership’s cash flow exceeded taxable income. Requests for rehearing of the order are currently pending before the FERC. Whether a pipeline’s owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although the FERC’s current income tax allowance policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails rate risks due to the case-by-case review requirement. The tax allowance policy was upheld by the D.C. Circuit in May 2007. FERC continues to refine its tax allowance policy in case-by-case reviews, and how the Policy Statement is applied in practice to pipelines owned by publicly traded partnerships could affect the rates of FERC regulated pipelines owned by such partnerships. Pending before FERC is a proceeding on the appropriate composition of proxy groups for purposes of determining natural gas and oil pipeline equity returns to be included in cost-of-service based rates. In a policy statement issued in July 2007, FERC proposed to permit inclusion of publicly traded partnerships in the proxy group analysis relating to return on equity determinations in rate proceedings, provided that the analysis is limited to actual publicly traded partnership distributions capped at the level of the pipeline’s earnings and that evidence is provided in the form of a multiyear analysis of past earnings demonstrating a publicly traded partnership’s ability to provide stable earnings over time. In November 2007, the FERC requested additional comments regarding the method to be used for creating growth forecasts for publicly traded pipeline partnerships, and FERC held a technical conference on this issue in January 2008. The ultimate outcomes of the FERC’s income tax allowance and proxy group proceedings are not certain and may result in new policies that would limit the amount of income tax allowance permitted to be recovered in regulated rates or that would disallow the full use of distributions to unitholders by publicly traded pipeline partnerships in any proxy group comparisons used to determine return on equity in future proceedings. Any such policy developments may adversely affect MMP’s ability to achieve a reasonable return or impose limits on MMP’s ability to include a full income tax allowance in cost of service. 22 Competition could lead to lower levels of profits and reduce the amount of cash MMP generates. MMP faces competition from other pipelines and terminals in the same markets as its assets, as well as from other means of transporting, storing and distributing petroleum products, including from other pipeline systems, terminal operators and integrated refining and marketing companies that own their own terminal facilities. MMP’s customers demand delivery of products on tight time schedules and in a number of geographic markets. If MMP’s quality of service declines or MMP cannot meet the demands of its customers, customers may utilize the services of its competitors. MMP’s business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the environmental and operational safety aspects of its operations. Each of MMP’s operating segments is subject to the risk of incurring substantial costs and liabilities under environmental and safety laws and regulations. These costs and liabilities arise under increasingly stringent environmental and safety laws, including regulations and governmental enforcement policies, and as a result of claims for damages to property or persons arising from MMP’s operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. If MMP were unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, its ability to meet its financial obligations and pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. The terminal and pipeline facilities that comprise MMP’s petroleum products pipeline system have been used for many years to transport, distribute or store petroleum products. Over time its operations, or operations by its predecessors or third parties not under MMP’s control, may have resulted in the disposal or release of hydrocarbons or solid wastes at or from these terminal properties and along such pipeline rights-of-way. In addition, some of MMP’s terminals and pipelines are located on or near current or former refining and terminal sites, and there is a risk that contamination is present on those sites. MMP may be subject to strict, joint and several liability under a number of these environmental laws and regulations for such disposal and releases of hydrocarbons or solid wastes or the existence of contamination, even in circumstances where such activities or conditions were caused by third parties not under its control or were otherwise lawful at the time they occurred. Further, the transportation of hazardous materials in MMP’s pipelines may result in environmental damage, including accidental releases that may cause death or injuries to humans, third-party damage, natural resource damages, and/or result in federal and/or state civil and/or criminal penalties that could be material to our and MMP’s results of operations and cash flows. MMP’s operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with climate control legislation and regulatory initiatives. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, at least 17 states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Also, as a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in April 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, the EPA may be required to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from mobile sources (e.g., cars and trucks) even if Congress does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of greenhouse gases. The Court’s holding in Massachusetts that greenhouse gases fall under the federal Clean Air Act’s definition of “air pollutant” may also result in future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources under certain Clean Air Act programs. New legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas where MMP conducts business could adversely affect its operations and demand for its services. 23 Many of MMP’s storage tanks and significant portions of MMP’s pipeline systems have been in service for several decades. MMP’s pipeline and storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of those assets have been in service for many decades. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect MMP’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows, as well as its ability to pay cash distributions. MMP depends on refineries and petroleum products pipelines owned and operated by others to supply its petroleum products pipeline and terminals. MMP depends on connections with refineries and petroleum products pipelines owned and operated by third parties as a significant source of supply for its facilities. Outages at these refineries or reduced or interrupted throughput on these pipelines because of weather-related or other natural causes, testing, line repair, damage, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in MMP being unable to deliver products to its customers from its terminals, receive products for storage or reduce shipments on its pipelines and could adversely affect its cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions. The closure of mid-continent refineries that supply MMP’s petroleum products pipeline system could result in disruptions or reductions in the volumes it transports and the amount of cash it generates. The EPA has adopted requirements that require refineries to install equipment to lower the sulfur content of gasoline and some diesel fuel they produce. The requirements relating to gasoline took effect in 2004, and the requirements relating to diesel fuel are being implemented through 2010. If refinery owners that use MMP’s petroleum pipeline system determine that compliance with these new requirements is too costly, they may close some of these refineries, which could reduce the volumes transported on MMP’s petroleum products pipelines and the amount of cash it generates. Mergers among MMP’s customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on MMP’s pipelines or products stored in or distributed through its terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash MMP generates. Mergers between MMP’s existing customers and MMP’s competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of MMP’s in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, MMP could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of MMP’s operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result not only in less revenues, but also a decline in cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce its ability to pay cash distributions. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect MMP’s business by substantially increasing the level of its indebtedness and liabilities and increasing its risk of being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, MMP evaluates and acquires assets and businesses that it believes complement its existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If MMP consummates any future acquisitions, its capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and MMP may experience 24 unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, MMP may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which it has no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. MMP’s expansion projects may not immediately produce operating cash flows and may exceed cost estimates. MMP has begun or anticipates beginning numerous expansion projects which will require it to make significant capital investments. MMP will incur financing costs during the planning and construction phases of these projects; however, the operating cash flows MMP expects these projects to generate will not materialize until some time after the projects are completed. The amount of time and investment necessary to complete these projects could exceed the estimates MMP used when determining whether to undertake them. For example, MMP must compete with other companies for the materials and constructions services required to complete these projects, and competition for these materials or services could result in significant delays and/or cost overruns. Any such cost overruns or unanticipated delays in the completion or commercial development of these projects could reduce MMP’s liquidity and its ability to pay cash distributions. MMP’s business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the petroleum products that it stores and transports. Petroleum products that MMP stores and transports are sold by its customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce MMP’s throughput volume, require it to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For instance, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of the products in its system and could require the construction of additional storage. If MMP is unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, its cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products MMP receives on its petroleum products pipeline system could reduce or eliminate MMP’s ability to blend products. MMP’s operations depend on employees who are assigned to conduct them, including employees covered by collective bargaining agreements which must be periodically renegotiated. The employees assigned to conduct MMP’s operations are employees of our general partner. Of the employees assigned to MMP’s petroleum products pipeline system as of December 31, 2007, approximately 200, or 35%, were represented by the United Steel Workers Union and covered by a collective bargaining agreement that extends through January 31, 2009. MMP expects negotiations to begin on a new agreement in the second half of 2008. If MMP is unable to reach a new agreement with the union, or if the new terms agreed to are not favorable, MMP’s results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. Terrorist attacks that are aimed at MMP’s facilities or that impact its customers or the markets it serves could adversely affect its business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, in general, and the nation’s pipeline and terminal infrastructure, in particular, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks has subjected MMP’s operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on MMP’s facilities, those of its customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on its business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets MMP serves could adversely affect its financial position, results of operations or cash flow, as well as its ability to pay cash distributions. 25 High natural gas prices can increase ammonia production costs and reduce the amount of ammonia transported through MMP’s ammonia pipeline system. The profitability of MMP’s ammonia customers partially depends on the price of natural gas, which is the principal raw material used in the production of ammonia. An extended period of high natural gas prices may cause MMP’s customers to produce and ship lower volumes of ammonia, which could adversely affect MMP’s cash flows. Rising short-term interest rates could increase MMP’s financing costs and reduce the amount of cash it generates. As of December 31, 2007, MMP had $163.5 million of floating rate borrowings outstanding on its revolving credit facility. In addition, MMP has effectively converted $100.0 million of its fixed-rate debt to floating-rate debt using an interest rate swap agreement. As a result, MMP has exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. Rising short-term rates could reduce the amount of cash MMP generates and adversely affect its ability to pay cash distributions. Restrictions contained in MMP’s debt instruments may limit MMP’s financial flexibility. MMP is subject to restrictions with respect to its debt that may limit its flexibility in structuring or refinancing existing or future debt and prevent it from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. These restrictions include, among other provisions, the maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on MMP’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, to grant liens, to sell assets or to repay existing debt without penalties. These restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair MMP’s ability to generate additional cash. In addition, a change in control of our general partner or MMP’s general partner could, under certain circumstances, result in MMP’s debt becoming due and payable. Risks Related to our Partnership Structure A reduction in MMP’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are currently entitled. Our ownership of the incentive distribution rights in MMP entitles us to receive specified percentages of total cash distributions made by MMP. Most of the cash we receive from MMP is attributable to our ownership of the incentive distribution rights. Accordingly, any reduction in quarterly cash distributions from MMP would have the effect of disproportionately reducing the amount of the distributions that we receive from MMP. Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and will reduce our cash available for distribution to holders of our limited partner units. Prior to making any distribution on our limited partner units, we reimburse our general partner for expenses it incurs on our behalf. This reimbursement could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions. Our general partner will determine the amount of its expenses that we must reimburse. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may perform other services for us for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets to a third party, or in a public offering, without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its general partner interest to a third party, our subsequent general partner may not manage our operations and activities in the same manner as MGG GP. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner, MGG MH, or any subsequent owner of our general partner, to transfer its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. If MGG MH sells its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party, the subsequent owner of our general partner may elect 26 new directors and officers, which may not manage our operations and activities in the same manner as our existing directors and officers. It is likely that three of our seven directors, who are affiliated with the current owners of our general partner, will resign if the current owners sell their remaining interest in our general partner. If MMP’s general partner is not fully reimbursed or indemnified for obligations and liabilities it incurs in managing the business and affairs of MMP, it may not be able to satisfy its obligations and its cash flows will be reduced. The general partner of MMP and its affiliates may make expenditures on behalf of MMP for which they will seek reimbursement from MMP. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, MMP GP, in its capacity as the general partner of MMP, has unlimited liability for the obligations of MMP, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of MMP that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. To the extent MMP GP incurs obligations on behalf of MMP, it is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified by MMP. If MMP does not reimburse or indemnify its general partner, MMP GP may be unable to satisfy these liabilities or obligations, which would reduce its cash flows. If in the future we cease to manage and control MMP through our ownership of MMP’s general partner interest, we may be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control MMP and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates, and adversely affect the price of our limited partner units. Although we control and manage MMP through our ownership of its general partner, MMP’s general partner owes fiduciary duties to MMP and MMP’s unitholders, which may conflict with our interests. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, including MMP’s general partner, on the one hand, and MMP and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of MMP’s general partner have fiduciary duties to manage MMP in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, MMP’s general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage MMP in a manner beneficial to MMP and its limited partners. The board of directors of MMP’s general partner will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to MMP and us; • the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and MMP, on the other hand; • the determination of the amount of cash to be distributed to MMP’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of MMP’s business; • the decision whether MMP should make acquisitions and on what terms; • the determination of whether MMP should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance acquisitions or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs, pay distributions or otherwise; and • any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of MMP. 27 The fiduciary duties of our general partner’s officers and directors may conflict with those of MMP GP, MMP’s general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise because of the relationships between MMP’s general partner, MMP and us. Our general partner’s directors and officers have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us, our unitholders and the owners of our general partner. Simultaneously, a majority of our general partner’s directors and all of its officers are also directors and officers of MMP’s general partner, and have fiduciary duties to manage the business of MMP in a manner beneficial to MMP and MMP’s unitholders. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. As of December 31, 2007, MGG MH, in which all three of our executive officers own an interest, owned approximately 14.1 % of our limited partner units and 100% of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including MGG MH and their respective affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • our general partner determines whether or not we incur debt and that decision may affect our or MMP’s credit ratings; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available to pay distributions to our unitholders; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; • our general partner determines the allocation of shared overhead expenses to MMP and us; • our general partner interprets and enforces contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and MMP, on the other hand; and • our general partner can consent to modifications of the incentive distributions we are entitled to receive in order to facilitate the consummation of MMP’s growth projects. Our general partner’s affiliates may compete with us. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership of interests in us. Affiliates of our general partner are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including 28 those that might be in direct competition with us. For example, we and our general partner are partially owned by an affiliate of the Carlyle/Riverstone Global Energy and Power Fund II, L.P. (“CRF”), which also owns, through affiliates, an interest in the general partner of SemGroup, L.P. (“SemGroup”) and an interest in Knight, Inc. (formerly known as Kinder Morgan, Inc.), which owns the general partner of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (“KMP”). SemGroup and KMP are engaged in the transportation, storage and distribution of refined petroleum products and may acquire other entities that compete with MMP. MMP will compete directly with SemGroup, KMP and perhaps other entities in which CRF has an interest for acquisition opportunities throughout the United States, and MMP competes directly with KMP in the storage of refined petroleum products in the southeastern United States. MMP potentially will compete with SemGroup, KMP and these other entities for new business or extensions of existing services provided by MMP’s operating partnerships, creating actual and potential conflicts of interest between MMP and our affiliates. In addition, an affiliate of SemGroup is a customer of MMP. Term loans of MGG MH may restrict our ability to incur debt. In addition, our ability to obtain debt financing could be affected by MMP’s and MGG MH’s credit ratings. We have entered into a $5.0 million revolving credit facility with MGG MH to provide for working capital needs. MGG MH repaid its term loan in April 2007. However, MGG MH may enter into a term loan in the future that could contain covenants that restrict our ability to incur indebtedness and to incur liens to support indebtedness. If MGG MH were unable to fund borrowings under our working capital facility and we were unable to arrange a new facility with another lender, we could be prevented from borrowing for working capital needs, in which case we would have to finance our working capital needs from distributions we receive on the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights in MMP that we hold, which would reduce the amount of cash available to meet our financial obligations or pay cash distributions. If we decide to obtain our own credit rating, any future downgrading of MMP’s or MGG MH’s credit rating would likely also result in a downgrading of our credit rating. Regardless of whether we have our own credit rating, a downgrading of MMP’s or MGG MMH’s credit rating could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future upon favorable terms, if at all. All of our executive officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Our general partner shares officers and administrative personnel with MMP’s general partner to operate both our business and MMP’s business. Our general partner’s officers, who are also the officers of MMP’s general partner, will allocate the time they and our general partner’s other employees spend on our behalf and on behalf of MMP. These officers face conflicts regarding the allocation of their and our other employees’ time, which may adversely affect our or MMP’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These allocations may not necessarily be the result of arms-length negotiations between MMP’s general partner and our general partner. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us or MMP as a corporation or if we or MMP become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The value of our investment in MMP, as well as the anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our limited partner units, depends largely on the treatment of MMP and us as partnerships for federal income tax purposes, which requires that 90% or more of MMP’s gross income for every taxable year consist of 29 qualifying income, as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. If we or MMP were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we and MMP would pay federal income tax on our respective taxable incomes at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us or MMP as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us or MMP as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our limited partner units. Current law may change causing us and/or MMP to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us and/or MMP to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, MMP is required to pay Texas Franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of its gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on MMP by Texas and, if applicable, by any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution to its unitholders. Our and MMP’s partnership agreement provide that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us or MMP to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us or MMP to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us and MMP. The tax treatment of our structure could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The federal income tax treatment of common unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of federal income tax law. The federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to Treasury Regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships. The present federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation (referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception”), affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our common units. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Internal Revenue Code section 7704(d) for the first time in 20 years. It is possible that these efforts could result in changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units and the amount of cash available to pay as distributions to our unitholders. If IRS contests the federal income tax positions we or MMP take, the market for our limited partner units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The IRS has made no determination as to our or MMP’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or 30 positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our limited partner units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our limited partner units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those limited partner units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a limited partner unit, which decreased their tax basis in that limited partner unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our limited partner units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in limited partner units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax exempt entities or non-U.S. persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our limited partner units. We will treat each purchaser of limited partner units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual limited partner units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the limited partner units. Primarily because we cannot match transferors and transferees of limited partner units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the 31 date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. MMP has adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and the public unitholders of MMP. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of MMP’s common units and our common units. When we or MMP issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, MMP determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of MMP’s public unitholders and us. MMP’s methodology may be viewed as understating the value of MMP’s assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain MMP public unitholders and us, which may be unfavorable to such MMP unitholders. Moreover, under MMP’s current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to MMP’s intangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to MMP’s tangible assets. The IRS may challenge MMP’s valuation methods, or our or MMP’s allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to MMP’s tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and certain of MMP’s public unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders or the MMP unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain on the sale of common units by our unitholders or MMP’s unitholders and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or those of MMP or result in audit adjustments to the tax returns of our or MMP’s unitholders without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have been terminated for federal income tax purposes if, within a twelve-month period, there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits interests, which includes all public and private sales of our common units by our unitholders. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. We believe, and will take the position, that the private sale of our common units by MGG MH on April 3, 2007, together with all other common units sold within the prior twelve months, represented a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in our capital and profits interests and resulted in our termination and immediate reconstitution as a new partnership for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, our 32 taxable year closed for all existing unitholders on that date. Such termination should not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but we are required to make new tax elections, including a new election under Section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code, and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine or substantiate whether a termination occurred. In addition, upon the sale or exchanges of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within any twelve month period beginning after April 3, 2007, our partnership will be considered to have terminated again. If such a subsequent termination were to occur, we would again be treated as a new partnership on that date and be required to make new tax elections. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our limited partner units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which MMP does business or owns property, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. MMP currently owns assets and conducts business in 22 states, most of which impose a personal income tax. As MMP makes acquisitions or expands its business, it may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 