ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - ---------------------------- CHANGING INTEREST RATES MAY CAUSE NET EARNINGS TO DECLINE. In the event that interest rates rise, our net interest margin and interest rate spread will be adversely affected by the high level of assets with fixed rates of interest which we retain in our portfolio. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income. Furthermore, the value of our loans will be less should we choose to sell such loans in the secondary market. Since as a general matter our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in our average interest rate spread and net interest income. IF OUR ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES IS NOT SUFFICIENT TO COVER ACTUAL LOAN LOSSES, OUR EARNINGS COULD DECREASE. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review individual delinquent multi-family and commercial real estate loans for potential impairments in their carrying value. Additionally, we apply a factor to the loan portfolio principally based on historical loss experience as applied to the composition of the one- to-four family loan portfolio and integrated with our perception of risk in the economy related to past experience. Since we must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. Consequently, we may need to significantly increase our provision for losses on loans, particularly if one or more of our larger loans or credit relationships becomes delinquent of if we expand our non-residential, multi-family or commercial business lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. IF ECONOMIC CONDITIONS DETERIORATE, OUR EARNINGS COULD BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED AS BORROWERS' ABILITY TO REPAY LOANS DECLINES AND THE VALUE OF THE COLLATERAL SECURING OUR LOANS DECREASES. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Since we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Advance changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. 30 In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Hamilton County, Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have an adverse impact on our earnings. OUR PUBLIC SHAREHOLDERS DO NOT EXERCISE VOTING CONTROL OVER CHEVIOT FINANCIAL CORP. A majority of the voting stock of Cheviot Financial Corp. will be owned by Cheviot Mutual Holding Company. Cheviot Mutual Holding Company will be controlled by its board of directors, who initially will consist of those persons who are members of the board of directors of Cheviot Financial Corp. and Cheviot Savings Bank. Cheviot Mutual Holding Company will elect all members of the board of directors of Cheviot Financial Corp., and, as a general matter, will control the outcome of all matters presented to the stockholders of Cheviot Financial Corp. for resolution by vote, except for matters that require a vote greater than a majority vote. Consequently, Cheviot Mutual Holding Company, acting through its board of directors, is able to control the business and operations of Cheviot Financial Corp. and may be able to prevent any challenge to the ownership or control of Cheviot Financial Corp. by stockholders other than Cheviot Mutual Holding Company. There is no assurance that Cheviot Mutual Holding Company will not take actions that the public stockholders believe are against their interests. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR MARKET AREA MAY LIMIT OUR GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY REGULATED ENVIRONMENT AND MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of deposits. As federally chartered holding companies, Cheviot Financial Corp. and Cheviot Mutual Holding Company also will be subject to regulation and oversight by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution's allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including changes in the regulations governing mutual holding companies, could have a material impact on Cheviot Savings Bank, Cheviot Financial Corp., and our operations. ITEM 1.B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS - ----------------------------------------- Not applicable. 31 MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF CHEVIOT FINANCIAL CORP. The following individuals hold the following executive officer positions of Cheviot Financial Corp. NAME AGE POSITION - ----------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------ Thomas J. Linneman 52 President and Chief Executive Officer Scott T. Smith 36 Chief Financial Officer AVAILABILITY OF ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K Our Annual Report on Form 10-K may be accessed on our website at www.cheviotsavings.com. 