ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changing Interest Rates May Cause Net Earnings to Decline. In the event that interest rates rise, our net interest margin and interest rate spread will be adversely affected by the high level of assets with fixed rates of interest which we retain in our portfolio. As market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income. Furthermore, the value of our loans will be less should we choose to sell such loans in the secondary market. Since, as a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in our average interest rate spread and net interest income. 34 If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review individual delinquent multi-family and commercial real estate loans for potential impairments in their carrying values. Additionally, we apply a factor to the loan portfolio principally based on historical loss experience as applied to the composition of the one- to-four family loan portfolio and integrated with our perception of risk in the economy related to past experience. Since we must use assumptions regarding individual loans and the economy, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and increases in the allowance may be necessary. Consequently, we may need to significantly increase our provision for losses on loans, particularly if one or more of our larger loans or credit r elationships becomes delinquent or if we expand our non-residential, multi-family or commercial business lending. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. If Economic Conditions Deteriorate, Our Earnings Could be Adversely Impacted as Borrowers’ Ability to Repay Loans Declines and the Value of the Collateral Securing Our Loans Decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Since we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Advance changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, substantially all of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Hamilton County, Ohio. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Our Public Shareholders Do Not Exercise Voting Control Over Cheviot Financial Corp. A majority of the voting stock of Cheviot Financial Corp. is owned by Cheviot Mutual Holding Company. Cheviot Mutual Holding Company is controlled by its board of directors, who consist of those persons who are members of the board of directors of Cheviot Financial Corp. and Cheviot Savings Bank. Cheviot Mutual Holding Company elects all members of the board of directors of Cheviot Financial Corp., and, as a general matter, controls the outcome of all matters presented to the stockholders of Cheviot Financial Corp. for resolution by vote, except for matters that require a vote greater than a majority vote. Consequently, Cheviot Mutual Holding Company, acting through its board of directors, is able to control the business and operations of Cheviot Financial Corp. and may be able to prevent any chal lenge to the ownership or control of Cheviot Financial Corp. by stockholders other than Cheviot Mutual Holding Company. There is no assurance that Cheviot Mutual Holding Company will not take actions that the public stockholders believe are against their interests. 35 We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and may be Adversely Affected by Changes in Laws and Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of deposits. As federally chartered holding companies, Cheviot Financial Corp. and Cheviot Mutual Holding Company also will be subject to regulation and oversight by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of asse ts by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including changes in the regulations governing mutual holding companies, could have a material impact on Cheviot Savings Bank, Cheviot Financial Corp., and our operations. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress recently enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act will eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision’s supervision and examination functions relating to Cheviot Savings Bank which will be transferred to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; however, rulemaking authority will be transferred to the Comptroller of the Currency, all by July 21, 2011, unless extended by up to six months by the Secretary of the Treasury. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate al l savings and loan holding companies like Cheviot Financial Corp., in addition to bank holding companies which it currently regulates. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Savings and loan holding companies are subject to a five year transition period before the holding company capital requirement will apply. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating t o securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Cheviot Savings Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for nation al banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. 36 The legislation also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to p romulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. Further, the legislation requires that originators of securitized loans retain a percentage of the risk for transferred loans, directs the Federal Reserve Board to regulate pricing of certain debit card interchange fees and contains a number of reforms related to mortgage origination. Many of the provisions of Dodd-Frank involve delayed effective dates and/or require implementing regulations. Accordingly, it will be some time before management can assess the full impact on operations. However, there is a significant possibility that the Dodd-Frank Act will, at a minimum, result in an increased regulatory burden and compliance, o perating and interest expense for Cheviot Savings Bank and Cheviot Financial Corp. ITEM 1.B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 