ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks primarily associated with our business: Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and our inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are critically important assets to us. Events outside of our control could jeopardize our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. In addition, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, and the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could cause these costs to rise significantly and materially affect our operating results. While our goal is to obtain patent protection for our innovations, they may not be patentable or we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important for our business. Even if we do obtain protection for our innovations, the scope of protection gained may be insufficient or a patent issued may be deemed invalid or unenforceable, as the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the patent. The patenting process, enforcement of issued patents, and defense against claims of infringement are inherently costly and risky. We may not have the financial resources to defend our patents, thereby reducing our competitive position and our business prospects. Specific risks associated with the patent process include the following: · The United States or foreign patent offices may not grant patents of meaningful scope based on the applications we have already filed and those we intend to file. If our current patents do not adequately protect our drug molecules and the indications for their use, then we will not be able to prevent imitation and any product may not be commercially viable. · Some of the issued patents we now license may be determined to be invalid. If we have to defend the validity of the patents that we have in-licensed, the costs of such defense could be substantial, and there is no guarantee of a successful outcome. In the event any of the patents we have in-licensed is found to be invalid, we may lose competitive position and may not be able to receive royalties for products covered in part or whole by that patent under license agreements. · In addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the United States and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our drug candidates. · Although we try to avoid infringement, there is the risk that we will use a patented technology owned by another person or entity and/or be sued for infringement. For example, U.S. patent applications are confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office, and patent offices in foreign countries often publish patent applications for the first time six months or more after filing. Further, we may not be aware of published or granted conflicting patent rights. Any conflicts resulting from patent applications and patents of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. In addition, defending or indemnifying a third party against a claim of infringement can involve lengthy and costly legal actions, and there can be no guarantee of a successful outcome. Specifically, we have filed patents to protect our compositions of matter and methods to treat several disease states, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, hyperproliferative diseases, and Angiogenesis. We do not know whether our claims will be granted. Even if we do obtain protection for our innovations, the scope of protection gained may be insufficient or a patent issued may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. 11 Table of Contents We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of this information could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally disclosed to others by our employees, which may cause us to lose any competitive advantage we enjoy from maintaining these trade secrets. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, which could require us to pay damages, and which could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations by others of intellectual property rights. As our products get closer to commercialization, there is greater possibility that we may become subject to an infringement claim based on use of our technology such that we would be unable to continue using the technology without obtaining a license or settlement from third parties. Any intellectual property claims, whether merited or not, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate and could cause us to divert critical management and financial resources to the resolution of such claims. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against our company or our collaborators or us could lead to: · payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent rights; · injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products; or · we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, an adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products to the marketplace. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. There is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Biotechnology companies that are much larger and with greater financial strength have gone out of business after fighting and losing an infringement battle. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our drug candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. If our drug development activities are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages. A patentee could prevent us from licensing the patented technology for the identification or development of drug compounds. There are also many patents relating to chemical compounds and the uses thereof. If our compounds are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages. A patentee could prevent us from making, using or selling the patented compounds. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us, protect our trade secrets or determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. From time to time, we may hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities conducted by us. Either we or these individuals may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. We may be required to license technology from competitors or others in order to develop and commercialize some of our products and services, and it is uncertain whether these licenses would be available. Third party patents may cover some of the products or services that we are developing or plan to develop (either directly or with strategic collaborative partners). To the extent valid third party patent rights cover our products, we (or our strategic collaborative partners) would be required to seek licenses from the holders of these patents in order to continue developing such products and payments under such licenses would reduce increase our operating expenses. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our technology to fall outside the scope of a third party patent, we may be unable to market some of our products, which would limit our prospects for profitability. 12 Table of Contents If we lose the services of key management personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our CEO Scott Pancoast, our founder and CSO Roger Sabbadini, Ph.D., and our Head of Ocular, Glenn Stoller, M.D., are all critical to our overall management as well as the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. None of our executive officers and key employees has long-term employment contracts with us, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could materially harm our business. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. We expect that as more companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries establish programs to discover drugs that target bioactive lipids, the demand for scientists with experience working with bioactive lipids will increase. As that demand increases, it is likely that certain of our competitors will directly target certain of our employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain and motivate our existing employees. We may also need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies and other emerging entrepreneurial companies, as well as universities and research institutions. Competition for such individuals, particularly in the Southern California area, is intense. Even though the current economic conditions have somewhat softened demand for qualified personnel, we expect that over the longer term we will continue to face stiff competition and may not be able to successfully recruit or retain such personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Because we operate in the highly technical field of drug discovery and development, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. Our industry is highly competitive, so, even if our products ultimately get approved by the FDA, our success depends on our ability to sustain competitive advantages. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are very competitive, fast moving and intense, and, despite current economic conditions, are expected to be increasingly so in the future. Other companies have developed and are developing drugs that, if not similar in type to our drugs, are designed to address the same patient or subject population. Therefore, our lead product, other products we have in development, or any other products we may acquire or in-license may not be the best, the safest, the first to market, or the most economical to make or use. If a competitor’s product is better than ours, for whatever reason, then we could make less money from sales, if we are able to generate sales at all. There are many reasons why a competitor might be more successful than we are, including: · Many competitors have greater financial resources and can afford more technical and development setbacks than we can. · Many competitors have been in the drug-discovery and drug-development business longer than we have. They have greater experience than us in critical areas like clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approval, and sales and marketing. This experience and their name recognition give them a competitive advantage over us. 13 Table of Contents · Some competitors may have a better patent position protecting their technology than we have or will have to protect our technology. If we cannot use our proprietary rights to prevent others from copying our technology or developing similar technology, then our competitive position will be harmed. · Some companies with competitive technologies may move through stages of development, approval, and marketing faster than we do. If a competitor receives FDA approval before we do, then it will be authorized to sell its products before we can sell ours. Because the first company “to market” often has a significant advantage over latecomers, a second-place position could result in less-than-anticipated sales. The United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, non-infringed versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug application for generic substitutes. These same incentives also encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications, known as 505(b)(2) applications, that rely on literature and clinical data not originally obtained by the drug sponsor. In light of these incentives and especially if our lead product (or our other drug candidates in development or any other products we may acquire or in-license) are commercially successful, other manufacturers may submit and gain successful approval for either an abbreviated new drug application or a 505(b)(2) application that will compete directly with our products. Such competition will likely cause a reduction in our revenues. We may not successfully manage any growth that we may experience. Our future success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of any such growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational, and financial resources. To manage any such growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. Our drug-development programs depend upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities, medical institutions, and clinical research organizations to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. Such agreements are often standard-form agreements typically not subject to extensive negotiation. These investigators or collaborators are not our employees, and in general we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If conflicts arise with our collaborators, they may act in their self-interests, which may be adverse to our interests. Conflicts may arise in our collaborations we have entered into or may enter into due to one or more of the following: · disputes with respect to payments that we believe are due under a collaboration agreement; · disagreements with respect to ownership of intellectual property rights; · unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities, or to permit public disclosure of these activities; · delay of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our drug candidates; or · termination or non-renewal of the collaboration. In addition, in our collaborations, we may be required to agree not to conduct independently, or with any third party, any research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Our collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research that we may pursue, either alone or with others. Our collaborators, however, may be able to develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these collaborations. 14 Table of Contents Our collaborations with outside scientific and clinical advisors may be subject to restriction and change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors at academic and other institutions who are experts in the fields of oncology, ophthalmology, and autoimmune disorders (such as multiple sclerosis). They assist us in our research and development efforts and advise us with respect to our clinical trials. These advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that would limit their future availability to us. Although our scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators generally agree not to engage in competing work, if a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another entity, we may lose their services, which may impair our reputation in the industry and delay the clinical development of our drug candidates. In addition, our advisors at academic or other institutions may be subject to the rules and regulations of such institutions which may limit or even prohibit their respective future involvement with us, such as with providing cooperation on publications. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers, over whom we have limited control, to manufacture our products. The manufacturing process of ASONEP and any other therapeutic products we may want to commercialize is expected to involve a number of steps and requires compliance with stringent quality control specifications imposed by us and by the FDA. Moreover, our proposed products may be manufactured only in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection and certification by the FDA. We do not have any manufacturing facilities ourselves and expect to rely on one or more third-party manufacturers to properly manufacture our lead product ASONEP and any other products we may develop or in-license and may not be able to quickly replace our manufacturing capacity if we were unable to use a third party’s manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure or other difficulty, or if such facilities are deemed not in compliance with current GMP requirements, and the noncompliance could not be rapidly rectified. Our inability or reduced capacity to have ASONEP and any other products we may develop or in-license manufactured would prevent us from successfully commercializing our proposed products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our proposed products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver proposed products on a timely and competitive basis. Any delays in formulation and manufacturing objectives may cause a delay in our clinical program, and could have an adverse effect on the price of our company’s shares. We have a limited product and technology portfolio at the current time. Although our clinical and pre-clinical drug candidates, ASONEP and iSONEP might ultimately show clinical relevance in multiple disease states, we have validated it only against cancer and AMD and only in animal models. Our ImmuneY2 process of generating monoclonal antibodies against lipid mediators may not be successful against future targets. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop a monoclonal antibody against our next target, and thus, Lpathomab may fail to become a drug candidate at all. There can be no assurance that any of our other product ideas will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or be successfully marketed. There can be no assurance that any programs or technologies that we might license in or acquire in the future will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or be successfully marketed. Acquisitions or in-licensing of drug-development programs could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We may acquire complementary companies, products, or technologies or seek to in-license certain technologies, but have only limited experience in these types of transactions. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. From time to time, we may engage in discussions regarding potential acquisitions or the in-licensing or certain technologies we believe are critical to our business. Any one of these transactions could have a material effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and therefore entails significant risk. As a result, we will incur a variety of costs in connection with an acquisition and may never realize its anticipated benefits. Any acquisitions we make may disrupt operations and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations, which could impair our relationships with current employees, collaborators, and strategic partners. We may also have to, or choose to, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities for an acquisition could be substantially dilutive to our stockholders. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization or impairment costs for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may not be able to generate product revenue. We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to market any products that may be approved by the FDA, we must build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. In addition, we have no experience in developing, training or managing a sales force and will incur substantial additional expenses in doing so. The cost of establishing and maintaining a sales force may exceed its cost effectiveness. Furthermore, we will compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against these companies. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. Risks associated with the financing, revenue, and internal controls of the Company: We are a start-up company, and we may be unable to generate significant revenues and may never become profitable. We are a start-up company that has generated approximately $4.9 million in revenues to date. Our revenue has been from grants to support our research and development activities and revenues paid under our collaboration agreement with Merck. In the event that Merck elects to terminate the agreement, our expected revenues would be substantially reduced. We expect to incur significant research and development costs for the foreseeable future. We may not be able to validate and market products in the future that will generate significant revenues. In addition, any revenues that we may generate may be insufficient for us to become profitable. In particular, potential investors should be aware that we have not proven that we can: · raise sufficient additional capital in the public and/or private markets to continue the development of our drug product candidates through clinical trials and other regulatory approval thresholds; · obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to commence selling our therapeutic drugs or diagnostic products in the U.S., Europe or elsewhere; · develop and manufacture drugs in a manner that enables us to be profitable and meets regulatory, strategic partner and customer requirements; · develop and maintain relationships with key vendors that will be necessary to optimize the market value of the drugs we develop; · maintain relationships with strategic partners that will be necessary to commercialize the drugs we develop or develop relationships with other strategic partners with respect to our other drug candidates other than ASONEP; · respond effectively to competitive pressures; or · recruit and build a management team to accomplish our business plan. If we are unable to accomplish these goals, our business is unlikely to succeed. As a result of our limited operating history, we may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. We have a limited operating history from which to evaluate our business. We have only generated approximately $4.9 million in revenues to date, and have not received FDA approval for marketing any of our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval for our products would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operating. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development. We may not be successful in addressing such risks, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Because of this limited operating history and because of the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete, our historical financial data is of limited value in estimating future operating expenses. Our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues. However, our ability to generate any revenues beyond grants or fees based on our current agreement with Merck depends largely on receiving marketing approval from the FDA. Moreover, if FDA approval is obtained, the size of any future revenues depends on the choices and demand of individuals, which are difficult to forecast accurately. We may be unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Accordingly, a significant shortfall in demand for our products could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as any indication of our future performance. Our quarterly and annual expenses are likely to increase substantially over the next several years depending upon the level of our drug development activities. Revenues from the SBIR grants and revenue from Merck may not continue at the current levels. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events could adversely impact our business prospects and make it more difficult to raise additional equity capital at an acceptable price per share. Each of the risk factors listed in this “Market Risks” section may affect our operating results. Our business and our industry are constantly changing and evolving over time. Furthermore, we compete in an unpredictable industry and regulatory environment. Our ability to succeed depends on our ability to compete in this fluctuating market. As such, our actual operating results may differ substantially from our projections. The report of the independent registered public accounting firm on our 2008 consolidated financial statements contains a going concern modification. Even though we raised net proceeds of approximately $6.6 million in a private placement that we closed in the third quarter of 2008 (the “20087 Private Placement”), and received $5.0 million in funding under the terms of our collaborative agreement with Merck, of which $7.8 million remains available at December 31, 2008, the report of the independent registered public accounting firm covering our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 stated that certain factors, including our net losses and our net cash used in our operating activities, when compared with our net cash position, raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern notwithstanding the proceeds from our private placement. Although we raised net proceeds of approximately $6.6 million in 2008 and entered into a collaborative development agreement with Merck, we may require substantial additional financing in order to carry out our planned activities beyond 2009. The amount of cash we had on hand as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $7.8 million. This amount plus the funds we anticipate will be received under the Merck collaboration agreement would be sufficient to meet our cash requirements to the end of 2009. Although we believe work under the collaborative agreement with Merck is progressing as planned, there can be no assurance that Merck will not cancel the agreement before the conclusion of the initial development period. In the event that Merck decides to cancel its agreement with us, we would need to seek additional sources of capital. During the first twelve months of the collaboration, Merck may terminate the arrangement upon 30 days written notice to Lpath. We expect to continue to incur cash losses from operations during 2009. While the company had cash totaling $7.8 million as of December 31, 2008, the cost of its ongoing drug discovery and development efforts, including general and administrative expenses, are expected to consume between $12 and $19 million in 2009. Additional capital may be required to continue to fund the company’s research and development projects in 2009 and beyond. We expect we will be required to issue additional equity or debt securities or enter into other financial arrangements, including relationships with corporate and other partners, in order to raise substantial additional capital necessary to fund the next five to ten year period during which we will be required to conduct product development and FDA testing through Phase 3 testing. Depending upon market conditions, we may not be successful in raising sufficient additional capital for our long-term requirements. If we fail to raise sufficient additional financing, we will not be able to develop our product candidates, we will be required to reduce staff, reduce or eliminate research and development, slow the development of our product candidates and outsource or eliminate several business functions. Even if we are successful in raising such additional financing, we may not be able to successfully complete planned clinical trials, development, and marketing of all, or of any, of our product candidates. In such event, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be required to reduce our staff, discontinue certain research or development programs of our future products, and cease to operate. 17 Table of Contents The recent volatility in the financial markets could adversely affect us or our partners or suppliers. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States and abroad have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Among other risks we face, the current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing in the future, including our ability to fund the further development of iSONEP and our other product candidates. In addition, current economic conditions could harm the liquidity or financial position of our partners or suppliers, which could, in turn, cause such parties to fail to meet their contractual or other obligations to us. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal controls and accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which may cause our current and potential stockholders to lose confidence in our financial reporting and adversely impact our business and our ability to raise additional funds in the future. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial statements and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial statements or prevent fraud, our operating results and our reputation could be harmed as a result, causing stockholders and/or prospective investors to lose confidence in management and making it more difficult for us to raise additional capital in the future. A primary source of revenue, grant funds from the National Institutes for Health, may not continue to be a source of revenue in the future. Although we have applied for many grants thus far and have been awarded five of them, in the future, the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) may not find our grant applications worthy of such grants. In addition, the NIH requires audits of those recipients of grant funds exceeding $500,000 in any year, a threshold that we exceeded in 2008. Such audits test the allowability and allocation of expenditures and ultimately compliance with OMB Circular A-133 audit requirements. There can be no assurance that we will pass such an audit, and failure to pass could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our business operations. Risks primarily associated with the Company’s stock: The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. Our common stock is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) and is quoted under the symbol LPTN.OB. The quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. Our common stock is thus subject to this volatility. The price of the common stock that will prevail in the market after the sale of the shares of common stock by the selling stockholders may be higher or lower than the price you have paid, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: · price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; · fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; · actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; · general economic conditions and trends; · sales of large blocks of our stock; · departures of key personnel; · changes in the regulatory status of our product candidate or clinical trials; · announcements of new products or technologies; · regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; and · failure of our common stock to be listed quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, American Stock Exchange or other national market system. If additional authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance or shares eligible for future sale were introduced into the market, it could hurt our stock price. We are authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, there were an aggregate of 75,221,148 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding on a fully diluted basis. That total includes 6,029,771 shares of our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, and 16,533,466 shares of common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of outstanding warrants. The exercise of options and/or warrants may cause substantial dilution to those who hold shares of common stock prior to such exercises. We are also unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of future sales of outstanding common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of the common stock in the public market by these holders or perceptions that such sales may take place may lower the common stock’s market price. 18 Table of Contents Sales of additional equity securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and your rights in us may be reduced. We expect to continue to incur product development and selling, general and administrative costs, and in order to satisfy our funding requirements, we will need to sell additional equity securities, in transactions similar in size and scope to our prior private placements, which may be subject to registration rights (as in our prior private placements). The sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our stock price may decline substantially. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and a reduction in the price that they are able to obtain upon sale of their shares. Also, new equity securities issued may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock. There is no assurance of an established public trading market. A regular trading market for our common stock may not be sustained in the future. FINRA (formerly, NASD) has enacted changes that limit quotation on the OTCBB to securities of issuers that are current in their reports filed with the SEC. The effect on the OTCBB of these rule changes and other proposed changes cannot be determined at this time. The OTCBB is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than a listing on the Nasdaq Stock Markets or other national securities exchange. Quotes for stocks included on the OTCBB are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the Nasdaq Stock Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTCBB may be difficult to obtain and holders of common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by a number of factors, including: · the issuance of new equity securities pursuant to a future offering; · competitive developments; · variations in quarterly operating results; · change in financial estimates by securities analysts; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; · investor perceptions of our company and the technologies industries generally; and · general economic and other national conditions. Our common stock is considered “a penny stock” and, as a result, it may be difficult to trade a significant number of shares of our common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has adopted regulations that generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. Following our reorganization and merger on November 30, 2005, the market price of our common stock has been less than $5.00 per share. As a result of our prior private placements, we will have more than doubled the number of shares outstanding since the time of our listing on the OTCBB in November 2005. Consequently, it is likely that the market price for our common stock will remain less than $5.00 per share for the foreseeable future and therefore may be a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors hereunder to sell their shares. In addition, because our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board, investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of the stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. We are able to issue shares of preferred stock with rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation provide for the authorization of 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors is authorized to issue such “blank check” preferred stock with rights that are superior to the rights of stockholders of our common stock, at a purchase price then approved by our Board of Directors, which purchase price may be substantially lower than the market price of shares of our common stock, without stockholder approval. Pursuant to agreements with us, until July 2009, some of our investors have pre-emptive rights with respect to the issuance of additional shares of capital stock in most capital raising transactions (which includes preferred stock). 19 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our securities. We currently intend to retain our earnings for funding growth and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Risks primarily associated with the drug discovery and development industry and with market and regulatory conditions in general: We must obtain governmental approval for each of our products, which is an expensive and complicated process in which any of a number problems could arise that would adversely affect our business. The development, production and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the United States and most other developed countries. The process of obtaining approval from the FDA in the United States requires conducting extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing. We have limited experience in, and limited resources available for, regulatory activities. Failure to comply with applicable regulations can, among other things, result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. Any of the following events can occur and, if any did occur, any one could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations: · difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials; · difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; · unexpected adverse reactions by patients or a temporary suspension or complete ban on trials of our products due to adverse side effects; · clinical trials may not yield sufficiently conclusive results for regulatory agencies to approve the use of our lead product, other products in development, or any other products we may acquire or in-license; · there can be delays, sometimes long delays, in obtaining approval for our product candidates, including, but not limited, to requests for additional clinical trials; · the rules and regulations governing product candidates such as ours can change during the review process, which can result in the need to spend time and money for further testing or review; · if approval for commercialization is granted, it is possible the authorized use will be more limited than we believe is necessary for commercial success, or that approval may be conditioned on completion of further clinical trials or other activities; and · once granted, approval can be withdrawn, or limited, if previously unknown problems arise with our human-use product or data arising from its use. In addition, most of our product candidates target lipids, as opposed to proteins, and the FDA has not previously approved any similar product. Thus, we may encounter unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues as we seek to obtain marketing approval. These and other factors could delay marketing approval from the FDA or cause us to fail to receive any approval from the FDA or other governmental authorities. Clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Human clinical trials are expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. Further, the medical, regulatory and commercial environment for pharmaceutical products changes quickly and often in ways that we may not be able to accurately predict. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or whether we will complete any of our clinical trials on schedule or at all. We estimate that the clinical trials for our first product candidate, ASONEP, will not be completed before 2010 at the earliest. Significant delays may adversely affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for ASONEP (or our other potential products or any other products we may acquire or in-license), and delay our ability to become profitable. Product development costs to us and our collaborators will increase if we have delays in testing or approvals or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Furthermore, as failure can occur at any stage of the trials, we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: · changes to applicable regulatory requirements; · unforeseen safety issues; 20 Table of Contents · determination of dosing issues; · lack of effectiveness in the clinical trials; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; · inability to maintain a supply of the investigational drug in sufficient quantities to support the trials; and · suspension or termination of clinical trials for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or changes in the clinical care protocols and standards of care within the institutions in which our trials take place. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in any INDs or the conduct of these trials. A number of companies in the biotechnology and drug development industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials despite promising results in earlier trials. In the end, we may be unable to develop marketable products. The results of our clinical trials may not support either further clinical development or the commercialization of our product candidates. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, their results may not support either the further clinical development or the commercialization of our product-candidates. The FDA or government authorities may not agree with our conclusions regarding the results of our clinical trials. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and the results from any later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. Delays in patient enrollment for clinical trials could increase costs and delay regulatory approvals. The rate of completion of our clinical trials will depend on the rate of patient enrollment. There may be substantial competition to enroll patients in clinical trials for our lead product ASONEP and any other products we may develop or in-license. This competition has delayed the clinical trials of other biotechnology and drug development companies in the past. In addition, recent improvements in existing drug therapy may make it more difficult for us to enroll patients in our clinical trials as the patient population may choose to enroll in clinical trials sponsored by other companies or choose alternative therapies. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased development costs and delays in regulatory approvals. Health care reform, which includes amendments to the Food and Drug Act, may adversely impact our business. The United States government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact: · the pricing of healthcare products in the United States or internationally; and · the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, that relate to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing may cause our revenue to decline, and we may need to revise our research and development programs. On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the “FDAAA”) was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluation and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of its new authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale of approved products. 21 Table of Contents We will incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted or proposed by the SEC, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of these laws and regulations and respond to their requirements. In particular, we expect that our auditing and other related fees and expenses are expected to increase substantially in the near future. These laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to their requirements. We may incur significant or currently undeterminable costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. As appropriate, we will store these materials and wastes resulting from their use at our or our outsourced laboratory facility pending their ultimate use or disposal. We will contract with a third party to properly dispose of these materials and wastes. We will be subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. We may also incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations adopted in the future. If Medicare and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, do not provide adequate reimbursement for our drugs or our diagnostic products, if commercialized, the commercial success of our product candidates could be compromised. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor’s determination that our product candidates, if commercialized, are: experimental or investigational; not medically necessary; not appropriate for the specific patient; or not cost-effective. Reimbursement by Medicare may require a review that will be lengthy and that will be performed under the provisions of a National Coverage Decision process with payment limits as the Secretary of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) determines appropriate. We cannot guarantee that the Secretary of HHS will act to approve any of our products, if commercialized, on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, there have been and will most likely continue to be significant efforts by both federal and state agencies to reduce costs in government healthcare programs and otherwise implement government control of healthcare costs. Any future changes in Medicare reimbursement that may come about as a result of enactment of healthcare reform or of deficit-reduction legislation will likely continue the downward pressure on reimbursement rates. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States may continue to pressure the pricing of healthcare services. In certain countries outside the United States, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. Third party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, government and other third-party payors increasingly are limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for many drugs and diagnostic products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, it may adversely affect our business. Since policy-level reimbursement approval is required from each private payor individually, seeking such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement approval from Medicare and private payors for any of our products, or if the amount reimbursed is inadequate, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Physicians and patients may not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves our initial lead product, ASONEP (or any other product we commercialize), physicians and patients may not accept and use it. Acceptance and use of ASONEP, or any of our future products, will depend upon a number of factors including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs and the use of controlled substances; · cost-effectiveness of our drugs or diagnostic products relative to competing products; 22 Table of Contents · availability of reimbursement from government or other healthcare payors for our lead product, ASONEP which is expected to cost as much as $30,000 or more per year of treatment and any other products we commercialize; and · effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. Because we expect sales of our current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would severely harm our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of biological, hazardous and radioactive materials used in our business could be costly and delay our research and development efforts. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful hazardous materials, including volatile solvents, biological materials such as blood from patients that has the potential to transmit disease, chemicals that cause cancer, and various radioactive compounds. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We face the risk of contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be subject to criminal sanctions or fines or held liable for damages, our operating licenses could be revoked, or we could be required to suspend or modify our operations and our research and development efforts. We may occasionally become subject to commercial disputes that could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business, by increasing our expenses and, if we do not prevail, by subjecting us to potential monetary damages and other remedies. From time to time we may become engaged in disputes regarding our commercial transactions. These disputes, if they occur, could result in monetary damages or other remedies that could adversely impact our financial position or operations. Even if we prevail in these disputes, they may distract our management from operating our business and the cost of defending these disputes would reduce our operating results. We may be subject to product liability claims. The development, manufacture, and sale of pharmaceutical products expose us to the risk of significant losses resulting from product liability claims. Although we intend to obtain and maintain product liability insurance to offset some of this risk, we may be unable to secure such insurance or it may not cover certain potential claims against us. We may not be able to afford to obtain insurance due to rising costs in insurance premiums in recent years. If we are able to secure insurance coverage, we may be faced with a successful claim against us in excess of our product liability coverage that could result in a material adverse impact on our business. If insurance coverage is too expensive or is unavailable to us, we may be forced to self-insure against product-related claims. Without insurance coverage, a successful claim against us and any defense costs incurred in defending ourselves may have a material adverse impact on our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 