ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this prospectus, before you decide to buy our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business would likely suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our securities. Risks primarily associated with our business: We are in the early stages of drug development, and we may be unable to generate significant revenues and may never become profitable. We are in the early stages of drug development, and have not received FDA approval for marketing any of our drug candidates. We have generated approximately $25.8 million in revenues through December 31, 2011 from grants and license agreements to support our research and development activities. In December 2010, we entered into the Pfizer Agreement under which Pfizer agreed to provide us with an upfront payment of $14 million in addition to sharing the cost of the planned Phase 1b and Phase 2a trials for iSONEP. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $40.2 million. We expect to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to develop and seek regulatory approval for our drug candidates. We cannot provide any assurance that any of our drug candidates will prove to be clinically significant or will receive regulatory approval. Even if the drug candidates were to receive any regulatory approval, there can no assurance that we could provide for their effective marketing and sales, either by ourselves or in partnership with others. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that Pfizer will not terminate the Pfizer Agreement, or that Pfizer will exercise its option for worldwide commercial rights to iSONEP. Consequently there can be no assurance that we will ever achieve profitability and, even if we achieve profitability, that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of drug development. 20 Table of Contents We may require, and may not be able to obtain, substantial additional financial resources in order to carry out our planned activities beyond mid 2014. As they are currently planned, we estimate that the cost of our ongoing drug discovery and development efforts, including general and administrative expenses, would require between $24 and $30 million from the beginning of 2012 through the second quarter of 2014. As of December 31, 2011, we had an available cash balance of approximately $14.4 million. Pursuant to the terms of the Pfizer Agreement, Pfizer has agreed to share the cost of the planned Phase 1b and Phase 2a trials for iSONEP. Additional near-term sources of cash include $1.1 million remaining on the $3 million BRDG-SPAN grant from the National Eye Institute (part of the National Institutes of Health) to support iSONEP-related trials, and the three year, $3 million grant from NIH awarded in 2009 that still has $1.5 million remaining to support ASONEP clinical trials. In addition, in March 2012 we completed a public offering in which we raised net proceeds of $8.2 million. We believe these funds should be sufficient to fund our ongoing drug discovery and development activities through mid 2014. Further, we may receive additional funding to support our operations beyond the end of 2013 under the Pfizer Agreement if Pfizer elects to exercise its option to continue the clinical development of iSONEP. Additionally, we may receive grants as a result of grant applications we have filed and will file. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in maintaining our commercial relationship with Pfizer, we will not experience further delays in our clinical trials, that Pfizer will exercise its option to commercialize iSONEP or that iSONEP will achieve the developmental, regulatory and commercial milestones that would entitle us to future payments under the Pfizer Agreement. As a result, we may be required to secure substantial additional capital to continue to fund our planned drug discovery and development projects beyond mid 2014. We expect we will be required to issue additional equity or debt securities or enter into other commercial arrangements, including relationships with corporate and other partners, to secure such additional financial resources. Depending upon market conditions, we may not be successful in raising sufficient additional capital to support our long-term requirements. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional financing, or enter into relationships with others that provide additional financial resources, we will not be able to develop our product candidates on our planned timeline, or at all, and we will be required to reduce staff, reduce or eliminate research and development, slow the development of our product candidates and outsource or eliminate several business functions. In such event, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and we may be required to cease operations. We may not be successful in maintaining our commercial relationship with Pfizer and our other collaborations may not be successful. In December 2010, we entered into the Pfizer Agreement, which provides Pfizer with an exclusive option for a worldwide license to develop and commercialize iSONEP. However, we cannot assure you that Pfizer will not exercise its rights to terminate the Pfizer Agreement early, we will not experience further delays in our clinical trials, that Pfizer will exercise its option to commercialize iSONEP, or that iSONEP will achieve the developmental, regulatory and commercial milestones that would entitled us to future payments under the Pfizer Agreement. Our commercial relationship with Pfizer and the other collaborations we have entered into, or may enter into in the future, may not be successful due to one or more of the following: •disputes with respect to payments that we believe are due under a collaboration agreement; •disagreements with respect to ownership and use of intellectual property rights; •unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities, or to permit public disclosure of these activities; 21 Table of Contents •delay of a collaborator's development or commercialization efforts with respect to our drug candidates or disagreements with the collaborator regarding the appropriate clinical trial protocols; or •termination or non-renewal of the collaboration due to the failure of our product candidate to satisfy required developmental, regulatory or commercial milestones, changes in the collaborator's business plans or financial health or other competitive or market reasons. In addition, in any collaboration, we may be required to agree not to conduct independently, or with any third party, any research that is competitive with the research conducted under our collaborations. Our collaborations may have the effect of limiting the areas of research that we may pursue, either alone or with others. Our collaborators, however, may be able to develop, either alone or with others, products in related fields that are competitive with the products or potential products that are the subject of these collaborations. For example, in March 2010, Merck proposed continuing the partnership with Lpath via an extension of the Initial Development Period (as defined in the Merck Agreement). However the terms of that proposal were rejected by Lpath's Board of Directors as not being in the best interests of Lpath's stockholders. Consequently, Merck notified us of their decision to terminate the Merck Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Merck Agreement, the termination was effective on April 24, 2010, and upon termination Merck relinquished all rights to the ASONEP program. Further, as a result of our collaborations, we may have less control over the development, clinical testing, marketing and distribution activities performed by our collaborators than if we were performing those functions with our own facilities and employees or based on our own decisions. This lack of direct control could adversely affect the results. For example, we anticipate that we will be able to resume our clinical trials in the third quarter of 2012, and if so, we expect to receive the preliminary results from our Phase 1b/2a clinical trial of iSONEP in patients with PED in the first quarter of 2013 and the preliminary results of our Phase 2a clinical trial of iSONEP in wet-AMD patients without PED by the end of 2013. Our ability to meet this timeline depends in part on Pfizer's decisions regarding the clinical trial protocols and the clinical trial process. We may not be able to correctly estimate our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: •the time and resources required to develop our product candidates, conduct pre-clinical and clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals, and create effective sales and marketing capabilities; •the expenses we incur for research and development required to develop our drug candidates and to maintain and improve our technology; •the costs of maintaining our commercial relationship with Pfizer; •the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and •the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation. In addition, our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues. However, our ability to generate any revenues depends largely on the progress of our drug candidates through clinical trials, and ultimately on receiving marketing approval from the FDA, which is difficult to forecast accurately. We may be unable to adjust our operations in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. As a result, a significant shortfall in our planned revenues could have an immediate and material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We must obtain governmental approval for each of our products, which is an expensive and complicated process in which any number of problems could arise that would adversely affect our business. Our product candidates target lipids, as opposed to proteins, and the FDA has not previously approved any similar product. Thus, we may encounter unexpected safety, efficacy, or manufacturing issues as we seek to obtain regulatory approval, and we may never receive approval from the FDA or other governmental authorities for our drug candidates. The development, production and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by government authorities in the United States and most other developed countries. The process of obtaining approval from the FDA in the United States requires conducting extensive pre-clinical and clinical testing. We have limited experience in, and limited resources available for, regulatory and clinical activities. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or whether we will complete any of our clinical trials on schedule or at all. We estimate that the clinical trials for our first product candidate will not be completed before 2015 at the earliest. Significant delays may adversely affect our financial results and the commercial prospects for iSONEP and ASONEP (or our other potential products or any other products we may acquire or in-license). Any of the following events relating to the regulatory approval of our drug candidates can occur and, if any did occur, any one could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations: •difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials; •difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; •unexpected adverse reactions by patients or a temporary suspension or complete ban on trials of our products due to adverse side effects; •inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; •inability to change clinical trial protocols if we experience unexpected delays; •inability to maintain a supply of the investigational drug in sufficient quantities to support the trials; •results of clinical trials not yielding sufficiently conclusive favorable data for regulatory agencies to approve the use of our products in development, or any other products we may acquire or in-license; •the FDA or other regulatory authorities may place a clinical trial on clinical hold; •delays, sometimes long delays, in obtaining approval for our product candidates, including, but not limited, to requests for additional clinical trials; •changes in the rules and regulations governing the approval process for product candidates such as ours during the testing and review period, which can result in the need to spend time and money for further testing or review; •the authorized use of any product, if approved, is more limited than required for commercial success, or approval is conditioned on completion of further clinical trials or other activities; and •any approval being withdrawn, or limited, if previously unknown problems arise with our human-use product or data arising from its use. Failure to comply with applicable regulations can, among other things, result in non-approval, suspensions of regulatory approvals, fines, product seizures and recalls, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecution. 23 Table of Contents We may have delays in completing our clinical trials and we may not complete them at all. We have not completed the clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval to market iSONEP or ASONEP. We have not initiated any Phase III studies. In January 2012, we temporarily suspended our Phase 1b/2a and Phase 2a clinical trials of iSONEP because the FDA advised us that it determined our fill-and-finish contractor, Formatech, Inc., was not in compliance with FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) requirements during the period that the iSONEP clinical vials were filled. After we suspended dosing, we were notified by the FDA that the iSONEP trials were being placed on clinical hold. The resumption of our Phase 1b/2a and Phase 2a clinical trials of iSONEP and planned Phase 2 clinical trial of ASONEP may be delayed or terminated as a result of many factors, including the following: •delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective clinical testing sites; •regulators or Institutional Review Boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial; •regulators or Institutional Review Boards may suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or concerns about patient safety; •delays or failure of the FDA to remove the clinical hold on our iSONEP trials; •we may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if we believe that they expose the participating patients to unacceptable risks or for other reasons; •slower than expected patient enrollment or lack of a sufficient number of patients that meet the enrollment criteria for our clinical trials and our inability to change our clinical protocols to respond to such delays; •patients failing to complete clinical trials due to safety issues, side effects, dissatisfaction with the treatment candidate, or other reasons; •difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment may prevent us from collecting the data required by our study protocols; •treatment candidates demonstrating a lack of efficacy during clinical trials; •governmental or regulatory delays, changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; •competition with ongoing clinical trials and scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians; and •delays in completing data collection and analysis for clinical trials. In addition, we rely on academic institutions, hospitals and medical centers, physician practices and clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our product candidates. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted the monitoring and supervision entirely on our own. Third parties may not perform their responsibilities for our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with a clinical trial protocol, applicable regulations or good clinical practices. We also rely on clinical research organizations to perform our data management and analysis. They may not provide these services as required or in a timely or compliant manner. We have initiated the process to manufacture the additional drug substance required to complete the PED and wet-AMD trials, and have identified an alternate fill/finish contractor. While we plan to resume dosing in both clinical trials in the third quarter of 2012, subject to any necessary regulatory approvals, there is no assurance that we will be able to resume our clinical trials on our intended timeline, if at all, or that the FDA will not impose additional obligations on us as a condition to removing the clinical hold. 24 Table of Contents Moreover, our development costs will increase if we are required to complete additional or larger clinical trials for the iSONEP and ASONEP prior to regulatory approval. If the delays or costs are significant, our financial results and ability to commercialize iSONEP and ASONEP will be adversely affected. The results of our clinical trials may not support either further clinical development or the commercialization of our product candidates. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, their results may not support either the further clinical development or the commercialization of our product-candidates. The FDA or government authorities may not agree with our conclusions regarding the results of our clinical trials. In addition, our collaboration partners may decide that the results of our clinical trials do not support further investment by such partners. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and the results from any later clinical trials may not replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, we or the FDA may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in any INDs or the conduct of these trials. A number of companies in the biotechnology and drug development industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials despite promising results in earlier trials. In the end, we may be unable to develop marketable products. Further, we have not obtained an agreement with the FDA that the design of our planned iSONEP or ASONEP studies are sufficient to lead to product approval if the results are positive. Moreover, we have not developed or reached an agreement with the FDA on the detailed statistical analysis plan that will be used to analyze the data from these clinical trials. Regulatory agencies also may approve a treatment candidate for fewer or more limited indications than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-marketing studies. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our treatment candidates. A source of revenue, grant funds from the National Institutes for Health, may not continue to be a source of revenue in the future. Although we have applied for many grants and thus far have been awarded ten of them, the National Institutes of Health ("NIH") may not in the future find our applications worthy of such grants. In addition, the NIH requires audits of those recipients of grant funds exceeding $500,000 in any year, a threshold that we have exceeded in 2011. Such audits test the allowability and allocation of expenditures and ultimately compliance with OMB Circular A-133 audit requirements. There can be no assurance that we will pass such an audit, and failure to pass could result in a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our business operations. 25 Table of Contents Our drug-development programs depend upon third-party researchers who are outside our control. We depend upon independent investigators and collaborators, such as universities, medical institutions, and clinical research organizations to conduct our pre-clinical and clinical trials under agreements with us. Such agreements are often standard-form agreements typically not subject to extensive negotiation. These investigators or collaborators are not our employees, and in general we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. These investigators may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. Our collaborations with outside scientific and clinical advisors may be subject to restriction and change. We work with scientific and clinical advisors at academic and other institutions who are experts in the fields of oncology, ophthalmology, and autoimmune disorders (such as multiple sclerosis). They assist us in our research and development efforts and advise us with respect to our clinical trials. These advisors are not our employees and may have other commitments that would limit their future availability to us. Although our scientific and clinical advisors and collaborators generally agree not to engage in competing work, if a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another entity, we may lose their services, which may impair our reputation in the industry and delay the clinical development of our drug candidates. We are dependent on third-party manufacturers, over whom we have limited control, to manufacture our products. The manufacturing process of iSONEP, ASONEP, Lpathomab, and any other therapeutic products we may want to evaluate or commercialize involves a number of steps and requires compliance with stringent quality control specifications imposed by us and by the FDA. Moreover, our proposed products may be manufactured only in a facility that has undergone a satisfactory inspection and certification by the FDA. We do not have any manufacturing facilities ourselves and expect to rely on one or more third-party manufacturers to properly manufacture our products currently in clinical development as well as any other products we may develop or in-license. We may not be able to quickly replace our manufacturing capacity if we were unable to use a third party's manufacturing facilities as a result of a fire, natural disaster (including an earthquake), equipment failure or other difficulty, or if such facilities are deemed not in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice ("cGMP") requirements, and the noncompliance could not be rapidly rectified. For example, in January 2012, we temporarily suspended dosing patients in our PED and wet-AMD trials, because we learned from the FDA that our fill-and-finish contractor, Formatech, Inc., was not in compliance with cGMP requirements during the period in August 2010 that the iSONEP clinical vials were filled. After we suspended dosing, we were notified by the FDA that the iSONEP trials were being placed on clinical hold. We have initiated the process to manufacture the additional drug substance required to complete the PED and wet-AMD trials, and have identified an alternate fill/finish contractor. While we plan to resume dosing in both clinical trials in the third quarter of 2012, subject to any necessary regulatory approvals, there is no assurance that we will be able to resume our clinical trials on our intended timeline, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our agreement with any manufacturer we select. For example, our agreement with our existing manufacturer of ASONEP and iSONEP, Laureate Pharma, Inc., ("Laureate") will expire by its terms at the end of 2012. There is no assurance that we will be able to renew our agreement with Laureate on acceptable terms, or at all. Laureate is our single manufacturer for ASONEP and ISONEP and may not be replaced without 26 Table of Contents significant effort and delay in production. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond our current manufacturer's capabilities could harm our ability to manufacturer such products until new manufacturers are identified and qualified, which would have a significant adverse effect on our business and results. Additionally, our inability or reduced capacity to have our products manufactured would prevent us from successfully evaluating or commercializing our proposed products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our proposed products may adversely affect our profit margins and our ability to develop and deliver proposed products on a timely and competitive basis. Any delays in formulation and manufacturing objectives may cause a delay in our clinical program, and could have an adverse effect on the price of our shares. We have a limited product and technology portfolio at the current time. Although our clinical drug candidates, iSONEP and ASONEP, might ultimately show clinical relevance in multiple disease states, we have assessed their clinical potential only against AMD and cancer, respectively, and only in Phase 1 clinical trials with small numbers of patients and in animal models. There can be no assurance that any of our existing products will be successfully developed, prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or be successfully marketed. In addition, our ImmuneY2 process of generating monoclonal antibodies against lipid mediators may not be successful against future targets. As such, there can be no assurance that we will be able to develop a monoclonal antibody against our future targets, and thus, we may fail to generate additional clinical candidates for our pipeline. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to sell and market any products we may develop, we may not be able to generate product revenue. We do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to market any products that may be approved by the FDA, we must build a sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. In addition, we have no experience in developing, training or managing a sales force and will incur substantial additional expenses in doing so. The cost of establishing and maintaining a sales force may exceed its cost effectiveness. Furthermore, we will compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unable to compete successfully against these companies. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. Physicians and patients may not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves our initial lead products (or any other product we attempt to commercialize), physicians and patients may not accept and use it. Acceptance and use of any of our future products, if approved, will depend upon a number of factors including: •perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs; •cost-effectiveness of our drugs or diagnostic products relative to competing products; •availability of reimbursement from government or other healthcare payors for our products; and •effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our third-party collaborators, if any. 27 Table of Contents Because we expect sales of our current product candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance, subsequent to approval, would severely harm our business. Our industry is highly competitive, so even if our products ultimately get approved by the FDA, our success depends on our ability to sustain competitive advantages. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are very competitive, fast moving and intense, and, are expected to be increasingly so in the future. Other companies have developed and are developing drugs that, if not similar in type to our drugs, are designed to provide comparable clinical significance. Therefore, our lead products, other products we may develop, or any other products we may acquire or in-license may not be, or may not be perceived to be, the most efficacious (at all or for a majority of patients), the safest, the first to market, or the most economical to make or use. If a competitor's product is, or is perceived to be, more advantageous than ours, for whatever reason, then we could make less money from sales, if we are able to generate sales at all. There are many reasons why a competitor might be more successful than we are, including: •Many competitors have greater financial resources and can afford more technical and development setbacks than we can. •Many competitors have been in the drug-discovery and drug-development business longer than we have. They have greater experience than we have in critical areas like clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approval, and sales and marketing. This experience and their name recognition give them a competitive advantage over us. •Some competitors may have a better patent position protecting their technology than we have or will have to protect our technology. If we cannot use our proprietary rights to prevent others from copying our technology or developing similar technology, then our competitive position will be harmed. •Some companies with competitive technologies may move through stages of development, approval, and marketing faster than we do. If a competitor receives FDA approval before we do, then it will be authorized to sell its products before we can sell ours. Because the first company "to market" often has a significant advantage over latecomers, a second-place position could result in less-than-anticipated sales. The United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, non-infringed versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug application for generic substitutes. These same incentives also encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications, known as 505(b)(2) applications, that rely on literature and clinical data not originally obtained by the drug sponsor. In light of these incentives and especially if our lead products (or our other drug candidates in development or any other products we may acquire or in-license) are commercially successful, other manufacturers may submit and gain successful approval for either an abbreviated new drug application or a 505(b)(2) application that will compete directly with our products. Such competition will likely cause a reduction in our revenues. If Medicare and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, do not provide adequate reimbursement for our drugs or our diagnostic products, if commercialized, the commercial success of our product candidates could be compromised. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that our product candidates, if commercialized, are: experimental or investigational; not medically necessary; not appropriate for the specific patient or clinical indication; or not cost-effective. 28 Table of Contents Reimbursement by Medicare may require a review that will be lengthy and that will be performed under the provisions of a National Coverage Decision process with payment limits as the Secretary of HHS determines appropriate. We cannot guarantee that the Secretary of HHS will act to approve any of our products, if commercialized, on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, there have been and will most likely continue to be significant efforts by both federal and state agencies to reduce costs in government healthcare programs and otherwise implement government control of healthcare costs. Any future changes in Medicare reimbursement that may come about as a result of enactment of healthcare reform or of deficit-reduction legislation will likely continue the downward pressure on reimbursement rates. In addition, emphasis on managed care in the United States may continue to pressure the pricing of healthcare services. In certain countries outside the United States, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. Third party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, government and other third-party payors increasingly are limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for many drugs and diagnostic products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products, it may adversely affect our business. Since policy-level reimbursement approval is required from each private payor individually, seeking such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process. If we are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement approval from Medicare and private payors for any of our products, or if the amount reimbursed is inadequate, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Health care reform, which includes amendments to the Food and Drug Act, may adversely impact our business. The United States government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact: •the pricing of healthcare products in the United States or internationally; and •the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, that relate to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing may cause our revenue to decline, and we may need to revise our research and development programs. On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluation and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of its new authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale of approved products. We may incur significant or currently undeterminable costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological agents and compounds that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. As appropriate, we will store these materials and wastes resulting from their use at our or our outsourced laboratory facility pending their ultimate use or disposal. We will contract with a third party to properly dispose of these materials and wastes. We will be subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. We may also incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations adopted in the future. 29 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims. The development, manufacture, and sale of pharmaceutical products expose us to the risk of significant losses resulting from product liability claims. Although we intend to obtain and maintain product liability insurance to offset some of this risk, we may be unable to secure such insurance or it may not cover certain proven claims against us. We may not be able to afford to obtain insurance due to rising costs in insurance premiums in recent years. If we are able to secure insurance coverage, we may be faced with a successful claim against us in excess of our product liability coverage that could result in a material adverse impact on our business. If insurance coverage is too expensive or is unavailable to us, we may be forced to self-insure against product-related claims. Without insurance coverage, a successful claim against us and any defense costs incurred in defending ourselves may have a material adverse impact on our operations. If we lose the services of key management personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our future success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our Chief Executive Officer, Scott Pancoast, and our founder and Chief Scientific Officer, Roger Sabbadini, Ph.D., are both critical to our overall management as well as the development of our technology, our culture and our strategic direction. None of our executive officers and key employees has long-term employment contracts with us, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. The loss of any of our management or key personnel could materially harm our business. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition in our industry for qualified employees is intense. We expect that as more companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries establish programs to discover drugs that target bioactive lipids, the demand for scientists with experience working with bioactive lipids will increase. As that demand increases, it is likely that certain of our competitors will directly target certain of our employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to retain and motivate our existing employees. We may also need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing, and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies and other emerging entrepreneurial companies, as well as universities and research institutions. Competition for such individuals, particularly in the Southern California area, is intense. Even though the current economic conditions have somewhat softened demand for qualified personnel, we expect that over the longer term we will continue to face stiff competition and may not be able to successfully recruit or retain such personnel. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste 30 Table of Contents products. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and wastes. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We also could incur significant costs associated with civil or criminal fines and penalties. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological, hazardous or radioactive materials. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions. Risks associated with our intellectual property: Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and our inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights are critically important assets to us. Events outside of our control could jeopardize our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. In addition, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, and the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could cause these costs to rise significantly and materially affect our operating results. While our goal is to obtain patent protection for our innovations, they may not be patentable or we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important for our business. Even if we do obtain protection for our innovations, the scope of protection gained may be insufficient or a patent issued may be deemed invalid or unenforceable, as the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or as to the enforceable scope of the claims of the patent. The patenting process, enforcement of issued patents, and defense against claims of infringement are inherently costly and risky. We may not have the financial resources to defend our patents, thereby reducing our competitive position and our business prospects. Specific risks associated with the patent process include the following: •The United States or foreign patent offices may not grant patents of meaningful scope based on the applications we have already filed and those we intend to file. If our current patents do not adequately protect our drug molecules and the indications for their use, then we will not be able to prevent imitation and any product may not be commercially viable. •Some of the issued patents we now license may be determined to be invalid. If we have to defend the validity of the patents that we have in-licensed, the costs of such defense could be substantial, and there is no guarantee of a successful outcome. In the event any of the patents we have in-licensed is found to be invalid, we may lose competitive position and may not be able to receive royalties for products covered in part or whole by that patent under license agreements. 31 Table of Contents •In addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the United States and foreign countries may permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without providing any compensation to us. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, some countries, including many in Europe, do not grant patent claims directed to methods of treating humans, and in these countries patent protection may not be available at all to protect our drug candidates. •Although we try to avoid infringement, there is the risk that we will use a patented technology owned by another person or entity and/or be sued for infringement. For example, U.S. patent applications are confidential while pending in the Patent and Trademark Office, and patent offices in foreign countries often publish patent applications for the first time six months or more after filing. Further, we may not be aware of published or granted conflicting patent rights. Any conflicts resulting from patent applications and patents of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. In addition, defending or indemnifying a third party against a claim of infringement can involve lengthy and costly legal actions, and there can be no guarantee of a successful outcome. Specifically, we have filed patents to protect our compositions of matter and methods to treat several disease states, including cancer, cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, hyperproliferative diseases, and angiogenesis. We do not know whether our claims will be granted. Even if we do obtain protection for our innovations, the scope of protection gained may be insufficient or a patent issued may be deemed invalid or unenforceable. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy of this information could be compromised by third parties, or intentionally or accidentally disclosed to others by our employees, which may cause us to lose any competitive advantage we enjoy from maintaining these trade secrets. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, which could require us to pay damages, and which could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations by others of intellectual property rights. As our products get closer to commercialization, there is greater possibility that we may become subject to an infringement claim based on use of our technology such that we would be unable to continue using the technology without obtaining a license or settlement from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our technology to fall outside the scope of a third party patent, we may be unable to market some of our products, which would limit our prospects for profitability. Any intellectual property claims, whether merited or not, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate and could cause us to divert critical management and financial resources to the resolution of such claims. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against us or our collaborators or us could lead to: •payment of damages, potentially treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's patent rights; •injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products; or 32 Table of Contents •we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. As a result, an adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our products to the marketplace. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Because we operate in the highly technical field of drug discovery and development, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party's relationship with us. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Risks primarily associated with our stock: The price of our common stock may be volatile. Our common stock is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") and is quoted under the symbol LPTN. The OTCBB is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than a listing on the Nasdaq Stock Markets or other national securities exchange. Quotes for stocks included on the OTCBB are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the Nasdaq Stock Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTCBB may be difficult to obtain. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has in the past and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Our common stock is subject to fluctuations for many reasons, including the following: •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; •fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; •actions of investors that affect the market price; 33 Table of Contents •actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts; •general economic conditions and trends; •the announcement of collaboration agreements to pursue further clinical development of our drug candidates; •sales of large blocks of our stock; •departures of key personnel; •changes in the regulatory status of our product candidate or clinical trials; •announcements of new products or technologies; •regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; and •failure of our common stock to be listed quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, American Stock Exchange or other national market system. If shares of our common or preferred stock available for issuance or shares eligible for future sale were introduced into the market, it could hurt our stock price. We are authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 12, 2012, there were an aggregate of 96,964,044 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding on a fully diluted basis. That total includes 6,246,317 shares of our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, and 17,251,128 shares of common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of outstanding warrants. The exercise of outstanding options and/or warrants may cause substantial dilution to those who hold shares of common stock prior to such exercises. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of the common stock in the public market by these holders or perceptions that such sales may take place may lower the common stock's market price. We may sell our authorized, but unissued, common stock to satisfy our funding requirements. We are also authorized to issue 15,000,000 shares of preferred stock, without stockholder approval. The preferred stock may have rights that are superior to the rights of the holders of our common stock, at a purchase price then approved by our Board of Directors. The sale or the proposed sale of substantial amounts of our common or preferred stock in the public markets may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our stock price. Our stockholders may also experience substantial dilution. Our common stock is considered "a penny stock" and, as a result, it may be difficult to trade a significant number of shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. Our stock is currently less than $5.00 per share, and is classified as a "penny stock." As a result, any broker or dealer selling our stock must disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase our securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will 34 Table of Contents depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual arrangements, restrictions imposed by applicable law, any limitations on payments of dividends present in any debt agreements we may enter into and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, your ability to achieve a return on your investment in our company will depend on any future appreciation in the market price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our holders have purchased their common stock. We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which may adversely affect our operating results, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause investors to lose confidence in our operating results and in the accuracy of our financial reports and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. As a public company, we will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our first report on compliance with Section 404(b) may be in connection with our financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2012, depending upon the value of our public float as of June 30, 2012. The controls and other procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is disclosed accurately and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. We believe that we have conformed our internal control procedures to the requirements of Section 404. Although we have developed controls that we believe to be effective, these controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with these policies or procedures may deteriorate. Furthermore, even with these procedures in place additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 in a timely manner, or are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC and investors may lose confidence in our operating results and the price of our common stock could decline. If our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, U.S. holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants without compliance with applicable state securities laws and the value of your warrants may be significantly reduced. Because our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, the exercise of the warrants by U.S. holders may not be exempt from state securities laws. As a result, depending on the state of residence of a holder of the warrants, a U.S. holder may not be able to exercise its warrants unless we comply with any state securities law requirements necessary to permit such exercise or an exemption applies. Although we plan to use our reasonable efforts to assure that U.S. holders will be able to exercise their warrants under applicable state securities laws if no exemption exists, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. As a result, your ability to exercise your warrants may be limited. The value of the warrants may be significantly reduced if U.S. holders are not able to exercise their warrants under applicable state securities laws. Our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange and, as a result, compliance with applicable state securities laws may be required for subsequent offers, transfers and sales of the shares of common stock and warrants offered hereby. The shares of our common stock and the warrants offered hereby are being offered only in a limited number of states in which we have either registered and/or qualified the common stock and 35 Table of Contents warrants for sale or pursuant to one or more exemptions from such registration and qualification requirements. We have not registered or qualified the shares of common stock and the warrants offered hereby for subsequent offer, transfer or sale in any state. Because our common stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, subsequent transfers of the shares of our common stock and warrants offered hereby by U.S. holders may not be exempt from state securities laws. In such event, it will be the responsibility of the holder of shares or warrants to register or qualify the shares or the warrants for any subsequent offer, transfer or sale in the United States or to determine that any such offer, transfer or sale is exempt under applicable state securities laws. Our governing documents provide indemnification for officers, directors and employees. Our governing instruments provide that officers, directors, employees and other agents shall only be liable to us for losses, judgments, liabilities and expenses for which they are adjudged guilty of willful misfeasance or malfeasance in the performance of his or her obligations. Thus certain alleged errors or omissions might not be actionable by us. The governing instruments also provide that, under the broadest circumstances allowed under law, we must indemnify our officers, directors, employees and other agents for losses, judgments, liabilities, expenses and amounts paid in settlement of any claims sustained by them in connection with our Company, including liabilities under applicable securities laws. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws could make a third party acquisition of the Company difficult. The Board of Directors is authorized to provide for the issuance of shares of preferred stock in series and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of Nevada, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences, and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations, or restrictions thereof without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance of rights to purchase such shares, could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. For instance, the issuance of a series of preferred stock might impede a business combination by including class voting rights that would enable the holder to block such a transaction, or facilitate a business combination by including voting rights that would provide a required percentage vote of the stockholders. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of the common stock. Although the Board of Directors is required to make any determination to issue such stock based on its judgment as to the best interests of our stockholders, the Board of Directors could act in a manner that would discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction that some, or a majority, of the stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or in which stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then market price of such stock. The Board of Directors does not at present intend to seek stockholder approval prior to any issuance of currently authorized stock, unless otherwise required by law or otherwise. We have no present plans to issue any preferred stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 