ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Below are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to our business, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. Risks Related to Current Economic Conditions If we are unable to find suitable investments or pay too much for properties, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives and the returns on our investments will be lower than they otherwise would be. We are competing for real estate investments with other REITs, real estate limited partnerships, pension funds and their advisors, bank and insurance company investment accounts, individuals, and other entities. In 2009, real estate market fundamentals underlying the U.S. office markets continued to deteriorate and debt markets continued to be constrained, thus, leading to a transaction volume that was significantly lower in 2009 as compared to earlier years. The shortage of high-quality assets trading has resulted in investors that have built up their cash positions and are ready to invest. The greater the number of entities and resources competing for high-quality office properties, the higher the acquisition prices of these properties will be, which could reduce our profitability and our ability to pay distributions. We cannot be sure that Wells Capital will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if Wells Capital makes investments on our behalf, our objectives will be achieved. The more money we raise in our ongoing public offering, the greater our challenge will be to invest all of the net proceeds of that offering on attractive terms. In the event we are unable to timely locate suitable investments, we may be unable or limited in our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Current economic conditions may cause the creditworthiness of our tenants to deteriorate and market rental rates to decline. During 2008 and 2009, current economic conditions have adversely affected the financial condition and liquidity of many businesses. Should such economic conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, our tenants’ ability to honor their contractual obligations may suffer. Further, it may become increasingly difficult to achieve future rental rates comparable to the rental rates of our currently in-place leases as we seek to release space and/or to renew existing leases. Our operational office and industrial properties were approximately 93.2% leased (office properties were approximately 96.0% leased) at December 31, 2009, and provisions for uncollectible tenant receivables, net of recoveries, were approximately 0.7% of total revenues for the 12 months then ended. As a percentage of 2009 annualized gross base rent, approximately 5% of leases expire in 2010, 9% of leases expire in 2011, and 8% of leases expire in 2012 (see Item 2). No assurances can be given that current economic conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-lease space at favorable rates or on our ability to maintain our current occupancy rate and our low provisions for uncollectible tenant receivables. Current economic conditions may create challenges for us in refinancing our existing debt or in seeking additional third-party loans. Current economic conditions, including declines in real estate transaction volumes and market values, as well as the constriction of the availability of debt capital, may create near-term challenges for us as we seek to refinance our acquisition line of credit (the “Wachovia Line of Credit”), which matures on May 7, 2010. As of February 28, 2010, the Wachovia Line of Credit had been fully repaid and the maximum capacity of $245 million was available. In the event that economic conditions deteriorate, we may face additional challenges in securing or refinancing other third-party borrowings in the future. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Current economic conditions may cause market rental rates and property values to decline. Current economic conditions, the availability and cost of credit, turmoil in the mortgage market, and declining real estate markets have contributed to increased volatility, lower real estate values, and diminished expectations for real estate markets and the economy going forward. Many economists are predicting economic conditions in the United States for 2010 to remain relatively weak, along with continued high levels of unemployment and vacancy rates at commercial properties as the “jobless recovery” persists through most of the year. Should such current economic conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, the value of our commercial real estate assets and the market rental rates that we are able to achieve may decline significantly. In the near-term, we believe that we are well-positioned to withstand this downturn due to our minimal exposure to immediate lease rollover, a strong tenant credit base, and low leverage levels relative to our competitors; however, no assurances can be given that current economic conditions and the effects of the credit crisis will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. General Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate Changes in general economic conditions and regulatory matters germane to the real estate industry may cause our operating results to suffer and the value of our real estate properties to decline. Our operating results will be subject to risks generally incident to the ownership of real estate, including: • changes in general or local economic conditions; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds, which may render the sale of a property difficult or unattractive; • changes in tax, real estate, environmental, and zoning laws; and • periods of high interest rates and tight money supply. These and other reasons may prevent us from being profitable or from realizing growth or maintaining the value of our real estate properties. Properties that have significant vacancies could be difficult to sell, which could diminish our return on those properties. Our properties’ market values depend principally upon the value of the properties’ leases. A property may incur vacancies either by the default of tenants under their leases or the expiration of tenant leases. If vacancies occur and continue for a prolonged period of time, it may become difficult to locate suitable buyers, and property resale values may suffer, which could result in lower returns for our stockholders. We depend on tenants for our revenue and lease defaults or terminations could reduce our net income and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The success of our investments materially depends on the financial stability of our tenants. A default or termination by a significant tenant on its lease payments to us would cause us to lose the revenue associated with such lease and require us to find an alternative source of revenue to meet mortgage payments and prevent a foreclosure if the property is subject to a mortgage. In the event of a tenant default or bankruptcy, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and re-letting our property. If a tenant defaults on or terminates a significant lease, we may be unable to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. These events could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to stockholders. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our inability to sell a property when we plan to do so could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders. General economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates, and other factors, including supply and demand, all of which are beyond our control, affect the real estate market. We may be unable to sell a property for the price, on the terms, or within the time frame that we want. That inability could reduce our cash flow and cause our results of operations to suffer, limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Uninsured losses relating to real property or excessively expensive premiums for insurance coverage could reduce our net income. There are types of losses, generally catastrophic in nature, such as losses due to wars, acts of terrorism, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution, or environmental matters, that are uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be insured subject to limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Insurance risks associated with potential terrorist acts could sharply increase the premiums we pay for coverage against property and casualty claims. Additionally, mortgage lenders in some cases have begun to insist that commercial property owners purchase coverage against terrorism as a condition of providing mortgage loans. Such insurance policies may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all, which could inhibit our ability to finance or refinance our properties. In such instances, we may be required to provide other financial support, either through financial assurances or self-insurance, to cover potential losses. We may not have adequate coverage for such losses. If any of our properties incur a casualty loss that is not fully insured, the value of that asset will be reduced by such uninsured loss. In addition, other than any working capital reserves or other reserves that we may establish, or our existing line of credit, we do not have sources of funding specifically designated for funding repairs or reconstruction of any uninsured damaged property. Also, to the extent we must pay unexpectedly large amounts for insurance, we could suffer reduced earnings that would result in lower distributions to stockholders. Our operating results may suffer because of potential development and construction delays and resultant increased costs and risks. We may acquire and develop properties, including unimproved real properties, upon which we will construct improvements. We will be subject to uncertainties associated with rezoning for development, environmental concerns of governmental entities and/or community groups, and our builders’ ability to build in conformity with plans, specifications, budgeted costs, and timetables. If a builder fails to perform, we may resort to legal action to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. A builder’s performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completing construction could also give tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to builders before they complete construction. These and other factors can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment. In addition, we will be subject to normal lease-up risks relating to newly constructed projects. We also must rely on rental income and expense projections and estimates of the fair market value of property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a purchase price at the time we acquire the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property, and our return on our investment could suffer. Actions of our joint venture partners could reduce the returns on our joint venture investments. As of December 31, 2009, we owned interests in four of our properties through joint venture arrangements in which we hold the controlling interest. Should we elect to acquire, develop, or improve additional properties through joint venture arrangements, such future investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate, including, for example: • the possibility that our co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt; • that such co-venturer may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce the returns to our investors. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations may reduce our net income and the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners, or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may hinder our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Compliance with new laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require us to incur material expenditures. Future laws, ordinances, or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenants’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state, and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and which may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions. Discovery of previously undetected environmentally hazardous conditions may decrease our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions. Under various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations, a current or previous real property owner or operator may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in such property. These costs could be substantial. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures or prevent us from entering into leases with prospective tenants that may be impacted by such laws. Environmental laws provide for sanctions for noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release of and exposure to hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials. Third parties may seek recovery from real property owners or operators for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of complying with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could reduce the amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would decrease our cash flows and limit our ability to make distributions. In some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or the reinvestment of proceeds in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon a sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced, or otherwise disposed. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to an Investment in Us There is no public trading market for our shares; therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. There is no current public market for our shares and we currently have no plans to list our shares on a national securities exchange. Stockholders may not sell their shares unless the purchaser meets the applicable suitability and minimum purchase requirements. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% of our stock, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase our shares. Moreover, our share redemption program has been suspended for “Ordinary Redemptions” (i.e., redemptions other than those made in connection with a “qualifying disability” or within two years of a stockholder’s death), and we can provide no assurance as to when, if ever, Ordinary Redemptions may resume. Even if we resume making Ordinary Redemptions, the program includes numerous restrictions that limit a stockholder’s ability to sell his or her shares to us, and our board of directors may amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption program upon 30 days’ notice, with the exception of amendments that would materially adversely affect the rights of redeeming heirs. Therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If a stockholder is able to sell his or her shares, it would likely be at a substantial discount to the public offering price. It is also likely that our shares would not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. Investors should only purchase our shares as a long-term investment because of the illiquid nature of our shares. We may be unable to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time, and, until we have invested the proceeds of our ongoing public offering and our properties are generating sufficient cash flow, we may have difficulty funding our distributions solely from cash flow from operations, which could reduce the funds we have available for investment and the return to our investors. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of distributions to stockholders. In the future we expect to fund distributions principally from cash flow from operations, adjusted for certain costs that were incurred for the purpose of generating future earnings, including acquisition costs; however, while we are in our offering stage and until our properties are generating sufficient cash flow, we may fund our distributions from borrowings or even the net proceeds from our ongoing public offering. If we fund distributions from financings or the net proceeds from our public offering, we will have less funds available for the acquisition of properties, and the overall return to our investors may be reduced. Further, to the extent distributions exceed cash flow from operations, a stockholder’s basis in our stock will be reduced and, to the extent distributions exceed a stockholder’s basis, the stockholder may recognize capital gain. The distributions paid to stockholders in 2008 and 2009 were funded with current-period or prior-period accumulated net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for acquisition-related costs as presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows. We can give no assurance that we will be able to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time. Our charter limits the number of shares a person may own, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring us in a manner that could result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications, 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price to holders of our common stock. Our stockholders have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks they face. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Under Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board’s broad discretion in setting policies and our stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks they face. Our investors may be more likely to sustain a loss on their investment because our sponsors do not have as strong an economic incentive to avoid losses as do promoters who have made significant equity investments in their company. As of February 28, 2010, our sponsors had invested only approximately $1.8 million in us, primarily by our advisor purchasing 20,000 units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership for $10.00 per unit before our initial public offering, and by our three officers purchasing shares of common stock for $9.05 per share in our initial public offering. Therefore, if we are successful in raising enough proceeds from our ongoing public offering to be able to reimburse our promoters for the significant organization and offering expenses of that offering, our promoters have little exposure to loss, especially if our shares are worth more than $9.05 per share upon the disposition of our properties. Without this exposure, our investors may be at a greater risk of loss because our promoters do not have as much to lose from a decrease in the value of our shares as do those promoters who make more significant equity investments in their companies. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Our loss of or inability to obtain key personnel could delay or hinder implementation of our investment strategies, which could limit our ability to make distributions. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of Leo F. Wells, III, Douglas P. Williams, and Randall D. Fretz, each of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not have employment agreements with Messrs. Wells, Williams, or Fretz, nor do Wells Capital or its affiliates, and we cannot guarantee that such persons will remain affiliated with us, Wells Capital, or its affiliates. If any of these key personnel were to cease their affiliation with us, Wells Capital, or its affiliates, we may be unable to find suitable replacement personnel, and our operating results could suffer as a result. We do not intend to maintain key person life insurance on any person. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon our advisor’s and our property managers’ ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, operational, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and our advisor and any property managers we retain may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Further, we have established and intend to establish strategic relationships with firms that have special expertise in certain services or as to real properties in certain geographic regions. Maintaining such relationships will be important for us to effectively compete with other investors for properties in such regions. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such relationships. If we lose or are unable to obtain the services of highly skilled personnel or do not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our operating performance could suffer if Wells Capital or its affiliates incur significant losses, including those losses that may result from being the general partner of other entities or the guarantor of debt held by other entities. We are dependent on Wells Capital, our advisor, and its affiliates to select investments and conduct our operations. Thus, adverse changes to our relationship with or the financial health of Wells Capital and its affiliates, including changes arising from litigation or as a result of having to perform under guarantees, could hinder their ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments. In addition, as a general partner to many Wells-sponsored programs, Wells Capital may have contingent liability for the obligations of such partnerships. Enforcement of such obligations against Wells Capital could result in a substantial reduction of its net worth. If such liabilities affected the level of services that Wells Capital or its affiliates could provide, our operations and financial performance could suffer. Payment of compensation to Wells Capital and its affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution, and increases the risk that you will not be able to recover the amount of your investment in our shares. Wells Capital and its affiliates will perform services for us in connection with the offer and sale of our shares, the selection and acquisition of our investments, the management and leasing of our properties, and the administration of our other investments. We will pay them substantial up-front fees for some of these services, which will result in immediate dilution to the value of your investment and will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to stockholders. Largely as a result of these substantial fees, we expect that for each share sold in our currently ongoing primary offering of up to 300.0 million shares of common stock as low as $8.65 per share will be available for the purchase of real estate, depending primarily upon the number of shares we sell. We will also pay significant fees to Wells Capital and its affiliates during our operational stage. Those fees include obligations to reimburse Wells Capital and its affiliates for expenses they incur in connection with their providing services to us, including certain personnel services. We may also pay significant fees during our listing/liquidation stage. Although most of the fees payable during our listing/liquidation stage are contingent on our investors first enjoying agreed-upon investment returns, affiliates of Wells Capital could also receive significant payments even without our reaching the investment return thresholds should we seek to become self-managed. Due to the apparent preference of the public market for self-managed companies, a decision to list our shares on a national securities exchange might well be preceded by a decision to become self-managed. And given our advisor’s familiarity with our assets and operations, we might prefer to become self-managed by acquiring entities affiliated with our advisor. Such an internalization transaction could result in significant payments to affiliates of our advisor, irrespective of whether investors enjoyed the returns on which we have conditioned other back-end compensation. These fees and other potential payments increase the risk that the amount available for distribution to common stockholders upon a liquidation of our portfolio would be less than the purchase price of the shares in this offering. Substantial consideration paid to our advisor and its affiliates also increases the risk that investors will not be able to resell their shares at a profit, even if our shares are listed on a national securities exchange. If we are unable to fund the future capital needs of our properties, cash distributions to our stockholders and the value of our investments could decline. When tenants do not renew their leases or otherwise vacate their space, we will often need to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements to the vacated space in order to attract replacement tenants. In addition, although 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements we expect that our leases with tenants will require tenants to pay routine property maintenance costs, we will likely be responsible for any major structural repairs, such as repairs to the foundation, exterior walls, and rooftops. If we need significant capital in the future to improve or maintain our properties or for any other reason, we will have to obtain financing from sources such as cash flow from operations, borrowings, property sales, or future equity offerings. These sources of funding may not be available on attractive terms or at all. If we cannot procure the necessary funding for capital improvements, our investments may generate lower cash flows or decline in value, or both, which would limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our independent directors are limited, which could reduce our recovery and our stockholders’ recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests, and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter provides that no independent director shall be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and that we will generally indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our independent directors than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our and our stockholders’ recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent directors (as well as by our other directors, officers, employees, and agents) in some cases. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce our net income and cash available for distributions. Our qualification as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets, and other tests imposed by the Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates and/or penalties. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends-paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Recharacterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status, which would reduce the return to our stockholders. We may purchase properties and lease them back to the sellers of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction such that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, we can give no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge such characterization. In the event that any such sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction was so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification asset tests or income tests and, consequently, lose our REIT status. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Stockholders may have current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in our common stock. Participants in our dividend reinvestment plan will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, participants will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, and except with respect to tax-exempt entities, participants in our dividend reinvestment plan may have to use funds from other sources to pay the tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock they receive. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state, and local taxes on our income or property. For example: • In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain). To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. • We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions we pay in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income, and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. • If we have net income from the sale of foreclosure property that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other nonqualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay a tax on that income at the highest corporate income tax rate. • If we sell a property, other than foreclosure property, that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, our gain would be subject to the 100% “prohibited transaction” tax. • We may perform additional, noncustomary services for tenants of our buildings through our taxable REIT subsidiary, including real estate or non real-estate-related services; however, any earnings related to such services are subject to federal and state income taxes. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions to make distributions to our stockholders, which could increase our operating costs and decrease the value of an investment in us. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each year 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction or net capital gain). At times, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy these distribution requirements and may need to borrow funds to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes. These borrowing needs could result from (i) differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes; (ii) the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures; (iii) the creation of reserves; or (iv) required debt or amortization payments. We may need to borrow funds at times when market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of our common stock. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, which could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and lower the return to our stockholders. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature of our assets, and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Because of the ownership structure of our hotel property, we face potential adverse effects from changes to the applicable tax laws. We own one hotel property. However, under the Code, REITs are not allowed to operate hotels directly or indirectly. Accordingly, we lease our hotel property to our taxable REIT subsidiary, or TRS. As lessor, we are entitled to a percentage of the gross receipts from the operation of the hotel property. Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. manages the hotel under the Marriott® name pursuant to a management contract with the TRS as lessee. While the TRS structure allows the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, the TRS is subject to tax on its income from the operations of the hotel at the federal and state level. In addition, the TRS is subject to detailed tax regulations that affect how it may be capitalized and operated. If the tax laws applicable to our TRS are changed, we may be forced to modify the structure for owning our hotel property or sell our hotel property, which may adversely affect our cash flows. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Treasury Department, and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, and we cannot predict whether, when, or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations, or rulings will be adopted. Any of such actions may prospectively or retroactively modify the tax treatment of the TRS and, therefore, may adversely affect our after-tax returns from our hotel property. Foreign currency gains may threaten our REIT status, and foreign currency losses may reduce the income received from our foreign investments. Foreign currency gains that we derive from certain of our investments will be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT income tests if such gains are derived with respect to underlying income that itself qualifies for purposes of the REIT income tests, such as interest on loans that are secured by mortgages on real property. Other foreign currency gains, however, will be treated as income that does not qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests, unless certain technical requirements are met. No assurance can be given that these technical requirements will be met in the case of any foreign currency gains that we recognize directly or through pass-through subsidiaries, or that those technical requirements will not adversely affect our ability to satisfy the REIT qualification requirements. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk subject to the REIT income qualification tests, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign taxes we incur will not be creditable to or otherwise pass through to our shareholders. Taxes that we pay in foreign jurisdictions may not be passed through to, or be used by our stockholders as a foreign tax credit or otherwise. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial, and administrative changes have been made in the provisions of federal and state income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in shares of Wells REIT II. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of our stockholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the impact of recent legislation on your ownership of shares and the status of legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on ownership of shares. Risks Associated with Debt Financing We have incurred and are likely to continue to incur mortgage and other indebtedness, which may increase our business risks. As of February 28, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately $0.9 billion, which consisted of $873.0 million outstanding under mortgage loans with fixed interest rates, or with interest rates that are effectively fixed when considered in connection with an interest rate swap agreement; $63.4 million outstanding 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements under a variable-rate mortgage loan; and $12.6 million outstanding on the fixed-rate Bank Zenit loan. We are likely to incur additional indebtedness to acquire properties, to fund property improvements and other capital expenditures, to redeem shares under our share redemption program, to pay our distributions, and for other purposes. Significant borrowings by us increase the risks of an investment in us. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from properties and the cash flow needed to service our indebtedness, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages or other indebtedness contain cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single loan could affect multiple properties. Our Wachovia Line of Credit includes a cross-default provision that provides that a payment default under any recourse obligation of $10 million or more or any nonrecourse obligation of $20 million or more by us, Wells OP II, or any of our subsidiaries constitutes a default under the line of credit. If any of our properties are foreclosed on due to a default, our ability to pay cash distributions to our stockholders will be limited. High mortgage interest rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income, and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable interest rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance the properties, our income could be reduced. If any of these events occur, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue insurance coverage, or replace Wells Capital as our advisor. These or other limitations may limit our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and limit our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future, which may include mortgages, term loans or borrowings under a credit facility. Increases in interest rates will increase interest costs on our variable-interest debt instruments, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of higher interest rates, we might sell one or more of our investments in order to repay the debt, which sale at that time might not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. For additional information, please refer to Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information regarding interest rate risk. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have broad authority to incur debt and high debt levels could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of an investment in us. Our policies do not limit us from incurring additional debt until debt would exceed 100% of our net assets, which is equivalent to 50% of the cost of our tangible assets, though we may exceed this limit under some circumstances. High debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments, and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of an investment in us. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Wells Capital, and possibly Wells Management, will face conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of properties, and such conflicts may not be resolved in our favor, i.e., our advisor may offer us less attractive investment opportunities or we may lease to less attractive tenants, lowering the overall return to our stockholders. We rely on Wells Capital to identify suitable investment opportunities. Other WREF-sponsored programs also rely on Wells Capital for investment opportunities. Many investment opportunities would be suitable for us as well as other WREF-sponsored programs. If Wells Capital directs an investment opportunity to a WREF-sponsored program, it is to offer the investment opportunity to the program for which the opportunity, in the discretion of Wells Capital, is most suitable. Likewise, we rely on Wells Management to attract and retain creditworthy tenants for some of our properties. Other WREF-sponsored programs rely on Wells Management for the same tasks. If Wells Management directs creditworthy prospective tenants to a property owned by another WREF-sponsored program when it could direct such tenants to our properties, our tenant base may have more inherent risk than might otherwise be the case. Our charter disclaims any interest in an investment opportunity known to Wells Capital that Wells Capital has not recommended to us. Wells Capital could direct attractive investment opportunities to other entities or even make such investments for its own account. Wells Management could direct attractive tenants to other entities. Such events could result in our investing in properties that provide less attractive returns or leasing properties to tenants that are more likely to default under their leases, thus reducing the level of distributions we may be able to pay. Wells Capital will face conflicts of interest relating to joint ventures that we may form with affiliates of Wells Capital, which conflicts could result in a disproportionate benefit to the other venture partners at our expense. We may enter into joint venture agreements with other WREF-sponsored programs for the acquisition, development, or improvement of properties. Wells Capital may have conflicts of interest in determining which WREF-sponsored program should enter into any particular joint venture agreement. The co-venturer may have economic or business interests or goals that are or may become inconsistent with our business interests or goals. In addition, Wells Capital may face a conflict in structuring the terms of the relationship between our interests and the interests of the affiliated co-venturer and in managing the joint venture. Since Wells Capital and its affiliates will control both the affiliated co-venturer and, to a certain extent, us, agreements and transactions between the co-venturers, with respect to any such joint venture, will not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiation of the type normally conducted between unrelated co-venturers. Co-venturers may thus benefit to our detriment. Wells Capital, its affiliates, and our officers will face competing demands on their time, and this may cause our operations to suffer. We rely on Wells Capital and its affiliates for the day-to-day operation of our business. Wells Capital and its affiliates, including our officers, have interests in other WREF-sponsored programs and engage in other business activities. As a result, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us and other WREF-sponsored programs and activities in which they are involved. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, they may devote less time and fewer resources to our business than are necessary or appropriate to 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements manage our business. Our reliance on our advisor to locate suitable investments for us at times when the management of our advisor is simultaneously seeking to locate suitable investments for other affiliated programs could delay the investment of the proceeds of our ongoing public offering. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition, and development of income-producing properties would reduce the returns on our investments and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our officers and some of our directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with Wells Capital and its affiliates, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to generate returns to our investors. Our executive officers and some of our directors are also officers and directors of our advisor, our dealer-manager, and other affiliated entities. As a result, they owe fiduciary duties to these various entities and their stockholders and limited partners, which fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties that they owe to us and our stockholders. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, which could hinder the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and leasing opportunities. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to our stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets. Wells Capital and its affiliates, including our officers and some of our directors, will face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and other WREF-sponsored programs, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interest of our stockholders. Wells Capital and its affiliates will receive substantial fees from us. These fees could influence our advisor’s advice to us, as well as the judgment of the affiliates of Wells Capital who serve as our officers or directors. Among other matters, the compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to: • the continuation, renewal, or enforcement of our agreements with Wells Capital and its affiliates, including the advisory agreement, the dealer manager agreement, and the property management, leasing and construction management agreement; • public offerings of equity by us, which entitle WIS to dealer manager fees and entitle Wells Capital to increased acquisition and asset management fees; • property sales, which entitle Wells Capital to real estate commissions and possible success-based sale fees; • property acquisitions from other WREF-sponsored programs, which might entitle Wells Capital to real estate commissions and possible success-based sale fees in connection with its services for the seller; • property acquisitions from third parties, which utilize proceeds from our public offerings, thereby increasing the likelihood of continued equity offerings and related fee income for WIS and Wells Capital; • whether and when we seek to become self-managed, which decision could lead to our acquisition of entities affiliated with Wells Capital at a substantial price; • whether and when we seek to list our common stock on a national securities exchange, which listing could entitle Wells Capital to a success-based listing fee but could also hinder its sales efforts for other programs if the price at which our shares trade is lower than the price at which we offered shares to the public; and • whether and when we seek to sell the company or its assets, which could entitle Wells Capital to a success-based fee but could also hinder its sales efforts for other programs if the sales price for the company or its assets resulted in proceeds less than the amount needed to preserve our stockholders’ capital. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The acquisition fees paid to Wells Capital and management and leasing fees paid to its affiliate, Wells Management, will be paid irrespective of the quality of their acquisition or property-management services during the term of the related agreement. Moreover, Wells Capital and Wells Management will have considerable discretion with respect to the terms and timing of acquisition, disposition and leasing transactions. Considerations relating to their compensation from other programs could result in decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders. Our directors’ and officers’ loyalties to other WREF-sponsored programs could influence their judgment, resulting in actions that are not in our stockholders’ best interest or that result in a disproportionate benefit to another WREF-sponsored program at our expense. Some of our directors and officers are also directors or officers of other WREF-sponsored programs. Specifically, three of our directors (including one of our independent directors) and all three of our officers are also directors or officers of two other WREF-sponsored real estate programs. The loyalties of our directors and officers serving on another board may influence the judgment of our board when considering issues for us that also may affect other WREF-sponsored programs, such as the following: • We could enter into transactions with other WREF-sponsored programs, such as property sales or acquisitions, joint ventures, or financing arrangements. Decisions of the board or the conflicts committee regarding the terms of those transactions may be influenced by the board’s or committee’s loyalties to other WREF-sponsored programs. • A decision of the board or the conflicts committee regarding the timing of a debt or equity offering could be influenced by concerns that the offering would compete with an offering of other WREF-sponsored programs. • A decision of the board or the conflicts committee regarding the timing of property sales could be influenced by concerns that the sales would compete with those of other WREF-sponsored programs. International Business Risks We are subject to additional risks from our international investments. We purchased the Dvintsev Business Center—Tower B, located in Moscow, Russia, during 2009. We may also purchase additional properties located outside the United States. These investments may be affected by factors particular to the laws and business practices of the jurisdictions in which the properties are located. These laws and business practices may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States. Foreign investments include the following risks: • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including: • changing governmental rules and policies, including changes in land use and zoning laws, more stringent environmental laws or changes in such laws; and • existing or new laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property or mortgages and laws restricting the ability of foreign persons or companies to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person’s or company’s country of origin; • the potential for expropriation; • possible currency transfer restrictions; • imposition of adverse or confiscatory taxes; • changes in real estate and other tax rates and changes in other operating expenses in particular countries; 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • possible challenges to the anticipated tax treatment of the structures that allow us to acquire and hold investments; • adverse market conditions caused by terrorism, civil unrest, and changes in national or local governmental or economic conditions; • the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to make mortgage loans in certain countries and changes in the availability, cost, and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; • general political and economic instability in certain regions; • the potential difficulty of enforcing obligations in other countries; • our willingness, or inability as a result of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, to comply with local business customs in certain regions; and • our advisor’s limited experience and expertise in foreign countries relative to its experience and expertise in the United States. Investments in properties outside the United States may subject us to foreign currency risks, which may adversely affect distributions. Investments outside the United States may be subject to foreign currency risk due to potential fluctuations in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in exchange rates of any such foreign currency to U.S. dollars may affect our revenues, operating margins and distributions and may also affect the book value of our assets and the amount of stockholders’ equity. Our ability to hedge such currency risk may be limited or cost prohibitive in certain countries. Certain foreign currency gains may threaten our REIT status, and foreign currency losses may reduce the income received from our foreign investments. Further, bank accounts held in a foreign currency, which are not considered cash or cash equivalents, may threaten our status as a REIT. Risks Related to Investments by Tax-Exempt Entities and Benefit Plans Subject to ERISA If you fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our stock, you could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. There are special considerations that apply to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA (such as profit sharing, section 401(k) or pension plans) and other retirement plans or accounts subject to Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code (such as an IRA) that are investing in our shares. If you are investing the assets of such a plan or account in our common stock, you should satisfy yourself that: • your investment is consistent with your fiduciary and other obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • your investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing your plan or IRA, including your plan’s or account’s investment policy; • your investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • your investment in our shares, for which no trading market may exist, is consistent with the liquidity needs of the plan or IRA; • your investment will not produce an unacceptable amount of “unrelated business taxable income” for the plan or IRA; 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • you will be able to comply with the requirements under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code to value the assets of the plan or IRA annually; and • your investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code. With respect to the annual valuation requirements described above, we expect to provide an estimated value for our shares annually. Until 18 months have passed without a sale in a public offering of our common stock, not including any offering related to a distribution reinvestment plan, employee benefit plan or the redemption of interest in our operating partnership, we expect to use the gross offering price of a share of the common stock in our most recent offering as the per share estimated value thereof. This estimated value is not likely to reflect the proceeds you would receive upon our liquidation or upon the sale of your shares. Accordingly, we can make no assurances that such estimated value will satisfy the applicable annual valuation requirements under ERISA and the Code. The Department of Labor or the Internal Revenue Service may determine that a plan fiduciary or an IRA custodian is required to take further steps to determine the value of our common shares. In the absence of an appropriate determination of value, a plan fiduciary or an IRA custodian may be subject to damages, penalties or other sanctions. See “Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Market Information.” Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties and could subject the fiduciary to claims for damages or for equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the fiduciary or IRA owner who authorized or directed the investment may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. In the case of a prohibited transaction involving an IRA owner, the IRA may be disqualified and all of the assets of the IRA may be deemed distributed and subjected to tax. ERISA plan fiduciaries and IRA custodians should consult with counsel before making an investment in our common shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We had no unresolved SEC staff comments as of December 31, 2009. 