Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial or sustained decline in prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows and access to capital. Our revenues and operating results depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the crude oil and natural gas we produce and sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. The prices we receive for our crude oil and natural gas are based upon factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic demands and supplies of oil and natural gas; · weather conditions; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the availability of pipeline capacity; · the price and level of foreign imports; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and · the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various and numerous federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, spacing of wells, injection of substances, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. Certain federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations, exist for the purpose of protecting the human health and the environment. The transportation and storage of refined products include the risk that refined products and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies and private parties for natural resources damages, personal injury, or property damages and significant business interruption. We own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined and unrefined products for many years. Many of these properties have also been operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control. As a result, we may incur substantial expenditures and/or liabilities to third parties or governmental entities which could have a material adverse effect on us. 10 Table of Contents The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise the capital needed to conduct our operations as planned or to make strategic acquisitions. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition of, exploration for and development of, crude oil and natural gas reserves. Due to our current liquidity constraints, it is unlikely that we will make any acquisitions of oil and gas properties and related assets or entities owning such assets for the foreseeable future. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings and sales of equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: · our proved reserves; · the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. Any one of these variables can materially affect our ability to access the capital markets. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to fund future development projects. We may, from time to time, seek additional financing, either in the form of bank borrowings, public or private sales of debt or equity securities or other forms of financing, or consider selling non-core assets to raise additional operating capital. However, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or sell non-core assets upon terms acceptable to us. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the demand for oil and gas, or distribution problems in meeting this demand, could adversely affect our business. Our success is materially dependent upon the demand for oil and gas. The availability of a ready market for our oil and gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas, the availability of alternative energy sources, the proximity of reserves to, and the capacity of, oil and gas gathering systems, pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. We may also have to shut-in some of our wells temporarily due to a lack of market or adverse weather conditions. If the demand for oil and gas diminishes, our financial results would be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limitations related to the methods of transportation for our production. Substantially all of our oil and gas production is transported by pipelines and trucks owned by third parties. The inability or unwillingness of these parties to provide transportation services to us for a reasonable fee could result in us having to find transportation alternatives, increased transportation costs or involuntary curtailment of a significant portion of our oil and gas production, any of which could have a negative impact on its results of operation and cash flows. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. The oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of petroleum products and hazardous substances, and historic disposal activities. These environmental hazards could expose us to material liabilities for property damages, personal injuries or other environmental harm, including costs of investigating and remediating contaminated properties. A variety of stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of our business and impose strict requirements for, among other things: · well drilling or workover, operation and abandonment; · waste management; · land reclamation; · financial assurance under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990; and · controlling air, water and waste emissions. Any noncompliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities. Additionally, our compliance with these laws may, from time to time, result in increased costs of 11 Table of Contents production, development or exploration, or decreased production, and may affect our costs of acquisitions. Our liability for environmental hazards includes those created either by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease or by acquired companies prior to the date we acquire them. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Our insurance policies currently provide for $1,000,000 general liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage including pollution, underground resources, blow-out and cratering. In addition, we have $1,000,000 coverage for our contractual obligations to our service contractors using their equipment downhole if it is damaged as a result of a blow-out. We have “an “Owned-Hired and Non-Owned” Commercial Automobile liability limit of $1,000,000. We also have secured $50,000,000 umbrella coverage in excess of the general liability and automobile liability. There is a $2,000,000 policy for control of well, redrill, and pollution on drilling wells and a $2,000,000 policy for control of well, redrill and pollution on producing wells. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover casualty losses or liabilities. Also, in the future, we may not be able to obtain insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. We do not insure against the loss of oil or natural gas reserves as a result of operating hazards, insure against business interruption or insure our field production equipment against loss. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s Proposed Budget of the U.S. Government, Fiscal Year 2011, includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (“GHG”) present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In March 2010, the EPA announced a proposed rulemaking that would expand its final rule on reporting of GHG emissions to include owners and operators of onshore oil and natural gas production facilities. If the proposed rule is finalized in its current form, reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities would be required on an annual basis beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Federal and state governments are considering enacting new legislation and promulgating new regulations governing or restricting the emission of greenhouse gases. The EPA has already made findings and issued proposed regulations that could lead to the imposition of restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and certain stationary sources and that could require us to establish and report an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the U.S. Congress has been considering various bills that would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of 12 Table of Contents greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. Such a program, if enacted, could require phased reductions in greenhouse gas emissions over several or many years as could the issuance of a declining number of tradable allowances to sources that emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Legislative and regulatory proposals for restricting greenhouse gas emissions or otherwise addressing climate change could require us to incur additional operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we sell. The potential increase in our operating costs could include new or increased costs to obtain permits, operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Derivatives regulation included in current financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices. The United States Congress recently adopted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which contains comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation contains significant derivatives regulation, including provisions requiring certain transactions to be cleared on exchanges and containing a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly referred to as “margin”) for such transactions as well as certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities. The Act provides for a potential exception from these clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users and it includes a number of defined terms that will be used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and to the parties to those transactions. However, we do not know the definitions that the CFTC will actually promulgate nor how these definitions will apply to us. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we could be required to post collateral with our dealer counterparties for our commodities hedging transactions. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity, thereby reducing our ability to use cash for investment or other corporate purposes, or would require us to increase our level of debt), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. In addition, a requirement for our counterparties to post collateral would likely result in additional costs being passed on to us, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of our hedges and our profitability. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. These bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. In addition, 13 Table of Contents in March 2010, the EPA announced its intention to conduct a comprehensive research study on the potential adverse impacts that hydraulic fracturing may have on water quality and public health. Thus, even if the pending bills are not adopted, the EPA study, depending on its results, could spur further initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA. Risks Related to Our Business Our auditors have issued a “going concern” audit opinion. Our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2010 have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. Our independent accountants have issued a report dated September 22, 2010 stating that our significant losses from operations and net capital deficiency raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Investors in our securities should review carefully the report of Hein & Associates LLP. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. We have no borrowing capacity under our credit agreements, and unless we are able to successfully execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant capital, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our obligations as they become due and to continue as a going concern. We have sustained recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. Over the periods presented in the accompanying financial statements, our growth has been funded through a combination of equity financings, borrowings under our credit agreements, the sale of assets and cash flows from operating activities. As of June 30, 2010, we had approximately $0.3 million of cash and cash equivalents available to fund operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. On July 20, 2010, we terminated our announced merger with Resaca that had been initiated pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated September 29, 2009. On July 26, 2010 we announced the engagement of Canaccord Genuity and Global Hunter Securities to assist our Board in a review of strategic alternatives, with a goal of maximizing economic value for our shareholders. The strategic alternatives we are considering include the sale of the Company, the sale of some or all of our existing oil and gas properties and assets, and potential business combinations. We currently have limited access to capital. On August 6, 2010, we finalized Consent and Forbearance Agreements with the lenders under our credit agreements that waived covenant compliance issues for the period ended June 30, 2010 and potential covenant compliance issues for the period ending September 30, 2010, set certain deadlines for the execution of our strategic alternatives process and allowed us to sell certain natural gas commodity derivative contracts for cash proceeds of $0.8 million, which was intended to provide Cano sufficient liquidity to complete our strategic alternatives process. As discussed in Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we currently have no available borrowing capacity under our senior and subordinated credit agreements. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. As a result of losses incurred and our current negative working capital, there is no assurance that the carrying amounts of assets will be realized or that liabilities will be settled for the amounts recorded. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern will be dependent upon the outcome of the strategic alternatives review. Unless we are able to successfully execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant additional capital, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our obligations as they become due and to continue as a going concern. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant additional capital. We are subject to potential early repayments as well as restrictions pursuant to the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock which may adversely impact our operations. Pursuant to the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock (“the Preferred Stock”), if a “triggering event” occurs, the holders of our Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to redeem their Preferred Stock at a price of at least 125% of the $1,000 per share stated value of the Preferred Stock plus accrued dividends. “Triggering events” include the following: · our common stock is suspended from trading or fails to be listed on the AMEX, the New York Stock Exchange, 14 Table of Contents the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market; · we fail to convert and do not cure this failure within 10 business days after the conversion date or give notice of our intention not to comply with a request for conversion; · we fail to pay for at least 5 business days any amount when due pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock or any documents related to the sale and registration rights of the Preferred Stock, common stock and warrants; · we take certain actions, or third parties take certain actions, with regard to bankruptcy; · we default on any indebtedness which default is not waived and the applicable grace period has expired; or · we breach any representation, warranty, covenant or other term or condition of any document relating to the sale and registration rights relating to the Preferred Stock, the common stock and the warrants, which, to the extent such breach is curable, such breach is not cured within 7 business days. There is no guarantee that we would be able to repay the amounts due under our Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of a “triggering event.” In addition, we cannot issue any preferred stock that is senior or on par with the Preferred Stock with regard to dividends or liquidation without the approval of holders of a majority of the Preferred Stock. If we file for bankruptcy protection, holders of our common stock and preferred stock may be severely diluted or eliminated entirely in connection with a bankruptcy filing or restructuring transaction. If we are unable to successfully execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant additional capital, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our obligations as they become due and to continue as a going concern. As a result, we will likely file for bankruptcy or seek similar protection. Moreover, it is possible that our creditors may seek to initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us or against one or more of our subsidiaries, which would force us to make defensive voluntary filing(s) of our own. In addition, if we restructure our debt or file for bankruptcy protection, it is very likely that our common stock and preferred stock will be severely diluted if not eliminated entirely. Our limited history makes an evaluation of us and our future difficult and profits are not assured. In view of our limited history in the oil and natural gas business, you may have difficulty in evaluating us and our business and prospects. Since May 2004, we have acquired rights in oil and natural gas properties and undertaken certain exploitation activities. We are in the early stages of two waterfloods and one ASP project. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies similar to ourselves. Generally, for our business plan to succeed, we must successfully undertake the following activities: · develop our oil and natural gas properties, including the successful application of EOR technologies, to the point at which oil and natural gas are being produced in commercially viable quantities; · contract with third parties regarding services necessary to develop our oil and natural gas properties; · contract with transporters and purchasers of our oil and natural gas production; · maintain access to funds to pursue our capital-intensive business plan; · comply with all applicable laws and regulations; · implement and successfully execute our business strategy; · find and acquire rights in strategic oil and natural gas properties; · respond to competitive developments and market changes; and · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in undertaking such activities. Our failure to successfully undertake most of the activities described above could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial 15 Table of Contents condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that sales of our oil and natural gas production will be able to sustain profitability in any future period. We are subject to many restrictions imposed by our lenders under our credit agreements and consent and forbearance agreements which may adversely impact our future operations. We currently have limited access to capital. On August 6, 2010, we finalized Consent and Forbearance Agreements with the lenders under our credit agreements that waived potential covenant compliance issues for the periods ending June 30, 2010 and September 30, 2010, set certain deadlines for the execution of our strategic alternatives process and allowed us to sell certain natural gas commodity derivative contracts for cash proceeds of $0.8 million, which was intended to provide Cano sufficient liquidity to complete its strategic alternatives process. As discussed in Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we currently have no available borrowing capacity under our senior and subordinated credit agreements. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital when needed, we will not be able to continue with our business strategy. Our business strategy includes developing and acquiring interests in mature oil fields with established primary and/or secondary reserves that may possess significant remaining upside exploitation potential by implementing various secondary and/or tertiary EOR techniques. As we continue our business plan, we may require additional capital to finance acquisitions as well as to conduct our EOR operations. Due to our current liquidity constraints, it is unlikely that we will make any acquisitions of oil and gas properties and related assets or entities owning such assets for the foreseeable future. Additionally, in the future, we may not be able to obtain financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. If we cannot raise the capital required to implement our business strategy, we may be required to curtail operations or develop a different strategy, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, any debt financing must be repaid and redeemable preferred stock must be redeemed regardless of whether or not we generate profits or cash flows from our business activities. The actual quantities and present value of our proved reserves may be lower than we have estimated. This annual report contains estimates of our proved reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from these estimates and vary over time. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of drilling, results of secondary and tertiary recovery applications, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Approximately 80% of our total proved reserves as of June 30, 2010 consisted of undeveloped reserves, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Approximately 80% of our total proved reserves as of June 30, 2010 were undeveloped. While we plan to develop and produce all of our proved reserves, these reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Furthermore, not all of our undeveloped or developed non-producing reserves may be ultimately produced in the time periods we have planned, nor at the costs we have budgeted, or at all. As of June 30, 2010, estimated development costs for our PDNP and PUD reserves were approximately $7.0 million and $303.5 million, respectively, through 2019. We may not achieve the production growth we anticipate from our properties or properties we acquire. Our operational strategy is to implement waterflood and EOR techniques upon our existing properties. The performance of waterflood and EOR techniques is often difficult to predict and takes an extended period of time from first investment until actual production. Additionally, we may not achieve the anticipated production growth from properties we own or acquire in the future. Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped leaseholds. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, recovery applicability from waterflood and EOR techniques, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform reviews of acquired properties which we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, such reviews will not reveal all existing or potential 16 Table of Contents problems. In addition, these reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Additionally, we do not inspect every well or property. Even when we inspect a well or property, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. It is our current intention to continue focusing on acquiring properties located in onshore United States. To the extent that we acquire properties substantially different from the properties in our primary operating regions or acquire properties that require different technical expertise, we may not be able to realize the economic benefits of these acquisitions. Exploration and development drilling and the application of waterflooding and EOR techniques may not result in commercially productive reserves. The new wells we drill or participate in, whether undertaken in primary drilling or utilizing waterflood or EOR techniques may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment. The engineering data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively, prior to beginning a project, that crude oil or natural gas is present in the reservoir or that those reserves can be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to generate an economic return. Further, our drilling and other operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including but not limited to: · unexpected drilling conditions; · title and permitting problems; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices; · adverse weather conditions; and · increases in the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, chemicals, drilling rigs and equipment. Certain of our current development and exploration (waterflood or EOR techniques where no proved waterflood or EOR reserves have previously been recorded) activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While all crude oil and natural gas activities, whether developmental or exploratory, involve these risks, exploratory activities involve greater risks of failure to find and produce commercial quantities of crude oil or natural gas. The departure of key management and personnel could adversely affect our ability to run our business. Our future success is dependent on the personal efforts, performance and abilities of key management, including S. Jeffrey Johnson, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Benjamin Daitch, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Michael J. Ricketts, Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer; and Phillip Feiner, Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel. All of these individuals are integral parts of our daily operations. We have employment agreements with each of them. We do not maintain any key life insurance policies for any of our executive officers or other personnel. The loss of any officer could significantly impact our business until adequate replacements can be identified and put in place. As a result of our strategic alternatives process, we are operating with a reduced work force which may affect our ability to run our business. Additionally, we may not be able to hire qualified replacements for lost employees in the future. 17 Table of Contents We face strong competition from larger oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors include large integrated oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of these competitors are well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we have. These larger competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are, and will be, increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. The geographic concentration of our oil and gas reserves may have a greater effect on our ability to sell oil and gas compared to larger, more geographically diverse companies and may make us more sensitive to price volatility. All of our oil and gas reserves are located in Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma. Since our reserves are not as diversified geographically as many of our larger, more geographically diverse competitors, our business could be more subject to local conditions than other, more diversified companies. Any regional events, including price fluctuations, natural disasters, oil and gas processing or transportation interruptions, and restrictive regulations, that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment or supplies, reduce demand or limit our production may impact our operations more than if our reserves were more geographically diversified. For example, if a hurricane strikes certain areas of the Texas Gulf Coast, the price received for our natural gas sales may be negatively impacted due to the temporary closure of natural gas pipelines or natural gas liquids processing plants in the region impacted by the hurricane. Our business will depend on gathering and transportation facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas that we produce. The marketability of our crude oil and natural gas production will depend in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. The amount of crude oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our ability to use net operating loss carryovers to offset future taxable income may be limited. Depending on the outcome of our strategic alternatives review as discussed in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our federal income tax net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards could be subject to the ownership change limitation provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. This will result in a limitation on the use of NOL carryforwards to a specified amount per year. The Company expects to be able to fully utilize these existing NOL carryforwards in future years. However, there can be no certainty that any of our NOL carryforwards will be utilized by us in the future. If the waterflood project at the Cockrell Ranch Unit of the Panhandle Properties is not successful, the aggregate reserves of the Panhandle Properties would be significantly reduced or eliminated. Cano is currently undertaking a waterflood project at the Cockrell Ranch Unit on 62 injection wells and 71 producing wells on 1,023 developed acres. Production has increased from roughly 10 BOEPD to over 100 BOEPD since the initial phase of the project was started in July 2007. A number of performance issues, caused by using prior injectors that were open-hole completed, has limited the rate of project response. Cano has embarked on an active isolation program to address these issues and retained a third-party engineering firm to perform simulation modeling. The modeling results have not been completed, as it has been postponed pending the final results of our strategic alternatives review. Once completed, it is believed that waterflood production growth will more closely track the analog East Schafer Ranch response profile. Under the analogous East Schafer Ranch profile, the Cockrell Ranch Unit production would increase from the current levels of 40 BOEPD to approximately 270 BOEPD or roughly 4 BOEPD per producing well within the next 18 to 24 months after completion. The Cockrell Ranch unit contains 301 MBOE of PDP reserves based on actual performance to date and 1,782 18 Table of Contents MBOE of remaining PUD reserves. Should the project response at the Cockrell Ranch not match the expectations for the PUD reserve profile, the reserves for this project area would be significantly reduced or eliminated. Moreover, a complete failure at the Cockrell Ranch Unit waterflood would impair the PUD reserve calculations for the properties immediately adjacent to the Cockrell Ranch, and could partially impair the remainder of the Panhandle Properties. Derivative activities create a risk of potentially limiting the ability to realize profits when prices increase. Pursuant to the terms of our credit agreements, we are required to maintain our existing commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of a decline in crude oil and natural gas prices. These commodity derivative contracts could prevent us from realizing the full advantage of increases in crude oil or natural gas prices if the NYMEX crude oil and natural gas prices exceed the contract price ceiling. In addition, these transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss if the counterparties to our derivative contracts fail to perform under the contracts. Also, increases in crude oil and natural gas prices negatively affect the fair value of our commodity derivatives contracts recorded on our balance sheet and, consequently, our reported net income. Changes in the recorded fair value of our derivatives contracts are marked to market through earnings and the decrease in the fair value of these contracts during any period could result in significant charges to earnings. We are currently unable to estimate the effects on earnings in future periods, but the effects could be significant. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, we may be in violation of our lending covenants, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could decrease as a result. During our evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for the year ended June 30, 2010, we concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2010, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). There can be no guarantee that we will not have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and internal controls in the future. Our business involves many operating risks, which may result in substantial losses, and insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect us against these risks. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, such as: · fires; · natural disasters; · explosions; · pressure forcing oil or natural gas out of the wellbore at a dangerous velocity coupled with the potential for fire or explosion; · weather; · failure of oilfield drilling and service tools; · changes in underground pressure in a formation that causes the surface to collapse or crater; · pipeline ruptures or cement failures; · environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases; and 19 Table of Contents · availability of needed equipment at acceptable prices, including steel tubular products. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: · injury or loss of life; · damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · regulatory investigations and penalties; · suspension of our operations; and · repair and remediation costs. Part of our business is seasonal in nature which may affect the price of our oil and natural gas sales and severe weather may adversely impact our ability to deliver oil and natural gas production. Weather conditions affect the demand for and price of oil and natural gas. Demand for oil and natural gas is typically higher during winter months than summer months. However, warm winters can also lead to downward price trends. Therefore, our results of operations may be adversely affected by seasonal conditions. Severe weather can cause interruptions to our production and temporarily shut-in production from our wells. Unfavorable results of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Management currently believes that resolving any of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. The litigation and claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Please see “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of our material pending legal proceedings. Currently, our lease operating expense per BOE is high in comparison to the oil and natural gas industry as a whole. Until such time as we achieve significant production growth from our waterfloods, our lease operating expense per BOE should remain higher than companies drilling for primary production. These higher operating costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Failure to obtain a satisfactory result from our strategic alternatives process could adversely affect our common stock price, and our future business and financial results. On July 20, 2010, following our termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger with Resaca we announced the initiation of a strategic alternatives process designed to achieve the best available economic value for our shareholders. The strategic alternatives we are considering include the sale of the Company, the sale of some or all of our existing oil and gas properties and assets, or potential business combinations. We currently have a severe shortage of working capital and funds to pay our liabilities, and we currently have no available borrowing capacity under our senior or subordinated credit agreements. We were not in compliance with the interest coverage ratio and leverage ratio at June 30, 2010. On August 6, 2010, we finalized Forbearance Agreements with our lenders that set certain deadlines for the execution of our strategic alternatives process and allowed us to sell certain natural gas commodity derivative contracts for $0.8 million. The cash proceeds from the sale of the derivative contracts is expected to provide us sufficient liquidity to complete our strategic alternatives process. Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. As a result of the losses incurred and current negative working capital, there is no assurance that the carrying amounts of assets will be realized or that liabilities will be liquidated or settled for the amounts recorded. The ability of Cano to continue as a 20 Table of Contents going concern is dependent upon the strategic alternatives process, as previously discussed. There can be no assurance that our strategic alternatives process will adequately resolve issues regarding our liquidity or going concern status. Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock may continue to be volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. On September 16, 2010, our closing price on the NYSE Amex was $0.75. Any future market price for our shares may continue to be very volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our stock price. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of NYSE Amex, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on NYSE Amex, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards. Among other things, these standards require that we remain current in our filings with the SEC and comply with certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we were to become noncompliant with NYSE Amex’s continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse affect on the price of our common stock. This is also a “triggering event” under our Preferred Stock which could cause the holders of our Preferred Stock to have the right to require us to redeem their Preferred Stock at a price of at least 125% of the $1,000 per share stated value of the Preferred Stock plus accrued dividends. If we are delisted from NYSE Amex, our common stock may become subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, which would make transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange or registered national securities association’s automated quotation system and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and other information regarding the investment experience and objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · confirms the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control the reports these analysts publish about us. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly-traded companies active in our industry and market, which may make it less likely that we 21 Table of Contents will receive widespread analyst coverage. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgraded our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and do not intend to pay cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures, and to retire debt. Any decisions to pay dividends on the common stock in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, available cash and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the terms of our credit agreements and our Preferred Stock. Provisions in our corporate governance and loan documents, the terms of our Preferred Stock and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Cano, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our Preferred Stock, our bylaws, our credit agreements and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage other persons from initiating a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider to be in the best interest of all stockholders, including takeover attempts that might result in a premium to be paid over the market price of our stock. The terms of our Preferred Stock give its holders the right to have their Preferred Stock redeemed upon a “change of control.” In addition, the terms of our Preferred Stock do not permit us to enter into certain transactions that would constitute a “change of control” unless the successor entity assumes all of our obligations relating to the Preferred Stock and the holders of a majority of our Preferred Stock approve such assumption and the successor entity is publicly-traded on the NYSE Amex, the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, subject to the terms of the Preferred Stock, we are authorized to issue additional shares of preferred stock. Subject to the terms of the Preferred Stock and our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has total discretion in the issuance and the determination of the rights and privileges of any shares of preferred stock which might be issued in the future, which rights and privileges may be detrimental to the holders of the common stock. It is not possible to state the actual effect of the authorization and issuance of a new series of preferred stock upon the rights of holders of the common stock and other series of preferred stock unless and until the board of directors determines the attributes of any new series of preferred stock and the specific rights of its holders. These effects might include: · restrictions on dividends on common stock and other series of preferred stock if dividends on any new series of preferred stock have not been paid; · dilution of the voting power of common stock and other series of preferred stock to the extent that a new series of preferred stock has voting rights, or to the extent that any new series of preferred stock is convertible into common stock; · dilution of the equity interest of common stock and other series of preferred stock; and · limitation on the right of holders of common stock and other series of preferred stock to share in Cano’s assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference attributable to any new series of preferred stock. The terms of our Preferred Stock and the provisions in our corporate governance documents regarding the granting of additional preferred stock may deter or render more difficult proposals to acquire control of our company, including proposals a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest, impede or lengthen a change in membership of our Board of Directors and make removal of our management more difficult. Furthermore, Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between our company and owners of 15% or more of our common stock. These provisions apply even if an acquisition proposal is considered beneficial by some stockholders and therefore could depress the value of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents The conversion price of our Preferred Stock may be lowered if we issue shares of our common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price which could cause further dilution to our common stockholders. Subject to certain exclusions, if we issue common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price for our Preferred Stock, the conversion price shall be adjusted downward which would further dilute our common stock holders upon conversion. Our Preferred Stock has voting rights both together with and separate from our common stock which could adversely affect our common stockholders. The holders of our Preferred Stock vote together with the holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis, subject to a limitation on how many votes the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock holders may cast if the conversion price falls below $4.79. In addition, approval of holders of a majority of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock is required for us to take the following actions: · to modify the certificate of incorporation or bylaws in a manner adverse to the Preferred Stock; · increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock; · create any class of preferred stock that has a preference over or is in parity with the Preferred Stock with respect to dividends or liquidation; · purchase, repurchase or redeem any share of common stock; · pay dividends or make any other distribution on the common stock; or · circumvent a right of the Preferred Stock. These voting rights may have an adverse impact on the common stock and the voting power of our common stockholders. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including withholding tax) on gains realized on disposition of our shares, and U.S. investors selling our shares may be required to certify as to their status in order to avoid withholding. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, a non-U.S. holder of our common stock will generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gains realized on a sale or other disposition of our common stock. Certain non-U.S. holders of our common stock may be eligible for an exception to the foregoing general rule if our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which the sale or disposition occurs. However, we cannot offer any assurance that our common stock will be so traded in the future. If our common stock is not considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which a sale or disposition occurs, the buyer or other transferee of our common stock will generally be required to withhold tax at the rate of 10% of the sales price or other amount realized, unless the transferor furnishes an affidavit certifying that it is not a foreign person in the manner and form specified in applicable Treasury regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 