Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A decline in prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the oil and natural gas we produce and sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market and political uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: •worldwide and domestic demands and supplies of oil and natural gas; •weather conditions; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the availability of pipeline capacity; •the price and level of foreign imports; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; •the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; 11 •political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and •the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various and numerous federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, injection of substances, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. There are federal, state and local laws and regulations primarily relating to protection of human health and the environment applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations. The transportation and storage of refined products include the risk that refined products and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies and private parties for natural resources damages, personal injury, or property damages and significant business interruption. We own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined and unrefined products for many years. Many of these properties have also been operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control. As a result, we may incur substantial expenditures and/or liabilities to third parties or governmental entities which could have a material adverse effect on us. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise the necessary capital in the future. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration for and development of oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings and sales of our equity securities. In addition, we may consider selling additional non-core assets to raise additional operating capital. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •our proved reserves; •the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; •the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and •our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. Any one of these variables can materially affect our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 12 If our revenues or the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility decreases as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to undertake or complete future drilling projects. We may, from time to time, seek additional financing, either in the form of increased bank borrowings, public or private sales of debt or equity securities or other forms of financing, and there can be no assurance as to the availability of any additional financing upon terms acceptable to us. Risks Related to Our Business Our limited history makes an evaluation of us and our future difficult and profits are not assured. Prior to the Davenport Merger in May 2004, we were inactive with no significant operations. In connection with the Davenport Merger, we decided to focus our business on the acquisition of attractive crude oil and natural gas prospects, and the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas on these prospects. Since that time, we have acquired rights in oil and natural gas properties and undertaken certain exploitation and other activities. However, we do not have a long operating history in our current business. Although we are in the process of initiating three waterfloods and an alkaline-surfactant project, we have not completed any new waterflooding or EOR technologies on our own on any of our properties. In view of our limited history in the oil and natural gas business, you may have difficulty in evaluating us and our business and prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stage of development. For our business plan to succeed, we must successfully undertake most of the following activities: •Find and acquire rights in attractive oil and natural gas properties; •Develop our oil and natural gas properties, including the successful application of EOR technologies and procedures, to the point at which oil and natural gas are being produced in commercially viable quantities; •Contract with third party service providers regarding services necessary to develop our oil and natural gas wells; •Contract with transporters and purchasers of our commercial production of oil and natural gas; •Maintain access to funds to pursue our capital-intensive business plan; •Comply with all applicable laws and regulations; •Implement and successfully execute our business strategy; •Respond to competitive developments and market changes; and •Attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in undertaking such activities. Our failure to undertake successfully most of the activities described above could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that our exploitation and production activities will produce oil and natural gas in commercially viable quantities. There can be no assurance that sales of our oil and natural gas production will ever generate sufficient revenues or that we will be able to sustain profitability in any future period. 13 If we cannot obtain sufficient additional capital when needed, we will not be able to continue with our business strategy. In addition, significant infusions of additional capital may result in dilution to your ownership and voting rights in our securities. Our business strategy is to acquire interests in mature oil fields with established reserves that have declined to marginal production levels, but possess significant remaining upside exploitation potential, and implement various secondary and tertiary enhanced oil recovery operations. We are focused on acquiring undervalued properties that feature enhanced recovery opportunities. As we continue to find acquisition candidates, we may require additional capital to finance the acquisitions as well as to conduct our EOR operations. We may not be able to obtain additional financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. If we cannot raise the additional capital required to implement our business strategy, we may be required to curtail operations or develop a different strategy, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, any debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether or not we generate profits or cash flows from our business activities. Equity financing may result in dilution to existing stockholders and may involve securities that have rights, preferences, or privileges that are senior to our common stock. The actual quantities and present value of our proved reserves may be lower than we have estimated. This prospectus contains estimates of our proved reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from these estimates and vary over time. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development drilling, results of secondary and tertiary recovery applications, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Approximately 87% of our total proved reserves as of June 30, 2007 consist of undeveloped and developed non-producing reserves, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Approximately 83% of our total proved reserves as of June 30, 2007 are undeveloped and approximately 4% are developed non-producing. While we plan to develop and produce all of our proved reserves, these reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Furthermore, not all of our undeveloped or developed non-producing reserves may be ultimately produced at the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all. The aggregate estimated development costs for our proved undeveloped reserves are approximately $325,000,000 as of June 30, 2007. We may not achieve the production growth we anticipate from properties we acquire. On May 28, 2004, we acquired Davenport Field Unit, which owned a 100% working interest in certain oil, natural gas and mineral leasehold estates and personal property related such leasehold estates located in Lincoln County, Oklahoma covering approximately 2,178 acres. On September 14, 2004, we acquired the Nowata Properties comprised of more than 220 oil and natural gas producing wells on 2,601 acres of land in Nowata County, Oklahoma. On March 29, 2005, we acquired Square One, pursuant to which we own a 100% working interest in 10,300 acres of mature oil fields in central Texas. On November 29, 2005, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of WO Energy, pursuant to which we own oil and natural gas properties on approximately 20,000 acres in Carson, Gray and Hutchinson counties located in the Texas panhandle with 480 producing wells, 40 water disposal 14 wells and 380 idle wells. On April 28, 2006, our wholly owned subsidiary Pantwist, LLC acquired additional oil and natural gas properties in the Texas panhandle, which properties cover approximately 9,700 acres with 167 wells. On March 30, 2007, our wholly owned subsidiary, Cano Petro of New Mexico, Inc., acquired additional oil and natural gas properties in New Mexico, which properties cover approximately 20,000 acres. Our operational strategy is to implement waterflood and EOR techniques. The performance of waterflood and EOR techniques is often difficult to predict, takes an extended period of time from first investment until actual production and we may not achieve the anticipated production growth from properties we acquire. Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our recent growth is due in part to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped leaseholds. We expect acquisitions will also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, recovery applicability from waterflood and EOR techniques, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform a review of the acquired properties which we believe is generally consistent with industry practices. However, such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well or property. Even when we inspect a well or property, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or be able to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. It is our current intention to continue focusing on acquiring properties with development and exploration potential located in onshore United States. To the extent that we acquire properties substantially different from the properties in our primary operating regions or acquire properties that require different technical expertise, we may not be able to realize the economic benefits of these acquisitions as efficiently as in our prior acquisitions. Exploration and development drilling and the application of waterflooding and EOR techniques may not result in commercially productive reserves. We do not always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations or our application of waterflooding or EOR techniques. The new wells we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. The engineering data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs or our application of waterflooding or EOR techniques is not successful. Further, our drilling and other operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: •unexpected drilling conditions; 15 •title problems; •pressure or irregularities in formations; •equipment failures or accidents; •adverse weather conditions; and •increases in the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, chemicals, drilling rigs and equipment. The departure of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to run our business. Our future success is dependent on the personal efforts, performance and abilities of key management, including S. Jeffrey Johnson, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Morris B. Smith, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Patrick McKinney, Senior Vice President—Engineering and Operations; and Michael J. Ricketts, Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer. All of these individuals are integral parts of our daily operations. We have employment agreements with Messrs. Johnson, Smith, McKinney, and Ricketts. We do not maintain any key life insurance policies for any of our executive officers or other personnel. Although, to our knowledge, none of our senior management currently has any plans to retire or leave our company in the near future, the loss of any of them could significantly impact our business until adequate replacements can be identified and put in place. We face strong competition from larger oil and natural gas companies, which makes it difficult to conduct profitable operations. Our competitors include major integrated oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of these competitors are large, well-established companies and have substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we do. We may not be able to successfully conduct our operations, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Specifically, these larger competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are and will be increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. We are subject to many restrictions under our revolving credit facility which may adversely impact our future operations. We may depend on our revolving credit facility for future capital needs. As required by our revolving credit facility with our bank lenders, we have pledged substantially all of our oil and natural gas properties as collateral to secure the payment of our indebtedness. The revolving credit facility restricts our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, sell assets, grant liens, repurchase, redeem or retire our securities, enter into specific transactions with our subsidiaries or affiliates and engage in business combinations. The revolving credit facility prohibits us from declaring or paying dividends on our common stock. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. These financial covenants and ratios could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under the revolving credit facility impose on us. Although we are currently in compliance with these covenants, in the past 16 we have had to request waivers from or enter into amendments with our lenders to avoid default because of our anticipated non-compliance with certain financial covenants and ratios. Any future default, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under the revolving credit facility. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it, which could force us to sell significant assets or to have our assets foreclosed upon which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Even if new financing were available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, the revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined by the lenders, based upon projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can independently adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Derivative activities create a risk of financial loss. Pursuant to the terms of our revolving credit facility, we are parties to oil and natural gas price risk management arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. We purchase floors that generally result in minimum price received by us for a portion of our production over a specified time period. We have the right to receive from the counterparty, the excess of the fixed price specified in the contract over a floating price based on a market index, multiplied by the quantity identified in the derivative contract. These transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss if the counterparty to our future contracts fail to perform under the contracts. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The year ended June 30, 2007 was the first year that we were subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing our internal controls and management's assessment. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, we may be in violation of our lending covenants, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the price of our stock could decrease as a result. During our evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for the year ended June 30, 2007, we concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2007, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). There can be no guarantee that we will not have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and internal controls in the future. Our business involves many operating risks, which may result in substantial losses, and insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect us against these risks. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, such as: •fires; •natural disasters; •explosions; 17 •pressure forcing oil or natural gas out of the wellbore at a dangerous velocity coupled with the potential for fire or explosion; •weather; •failure of oilfield drilling and service tools; •changes in underground pressure in a formation that causes the surface to collapse or crater; •pipeline ruptures or cement failures; •environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases; and •availability of needed equipment at acceptable prices, including steel tubular products. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: •injury or loss of life; •damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage; •regulatory investigations and penalties; •suspension of our operations; and •repair and remediation costs. Our liability for environmental hazards includes those created either by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease or by acquired companies prior to the date we acquire them. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Our insurance policies currently provide for $1,000,000 general liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage including pollution, underground resources, blow-out and cratering. In addition, we have $1,000,000 coverage for our contractual obligations to our service contractors using their equipment downhole as a result of a blow-out. We have a "Owned-Hired and Non-Owned" Commercial Automobile liability limit of $1,000,000. We also have secured $25,000,000 umbrella coverage in excess of the general liability and automobile liability. There is a $3,000,000 policy for control of well, redrill, and pollution on drilling wells and a $1,000,000 policy for control of well, redrill and pollution on producing wells. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover casualty losses or liabilities. Also, in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. We do not insure against the loss of oil or natural gas reserves as a result of operating hazards, insure against business interruption or insure our field production equipment against loss. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operations. There are risks in acquiring producing properties, including difficulties in integrating acquired properties into our business, additional liabilities and expenses associated with acquired properties, diversion of management attention, increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations and incurrence of additional debt. Our business strategy includes growing our reserve base through acquisitions. Our failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, or the expense incurred in consummating future acquisitions, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. In addition, we may assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. The scope and cost of these obligations may ultimately be materially greater than estimated at the time of the acquisition. 18 We are continually investigating opportunities for acquisitions. In connection with future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Our ability to make future acquisitions may be constrained by our ability to obtain additional financing. Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities and expense, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Terrorist activities may adversely affect our business. Terrorist activities, including events similar to those of September 11, 2001, or armed conflict involving the United States may adversely affect our business activities and financial condition. If events of this nature occur and persist, the resulting political and social instability could adversely affect prevailing oil and natural gas prices and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs associated with insurance and other security measures may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Part of our business is seasonal in nature which may affect the price of our oil and natural gas. Weather conditions affect the demand for and price of oil and natural gas. Demand for oil and natural gas is typically higher during winter months than summer months. However, warm winters can also lead to downward price trends. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected by seasonal conditions. We are subject to potential early repayments as well as restrictions pursuant to the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock which may adversely impact our operations. Pursuant to the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, if a "triggering event" occurs, the holders of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to redeem their preferred stock at a minimum price of at least 125% of the $1,000 per share stated value plus certain dividends. "Triggering events" include the following: •our common stock is suspended from trading or fails to be listed on the AMEX, the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market; •we fail to convert and do not cure this failure within 10 business days after the conversion date or give notice of our intention not to comply with a request for conversion; •we fail to pay for at least 5 business days any amount when and as due pursuant to the terms of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock or any documents related to the sale and registration rights of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, common stock and warrants; •certain actions are taken by us or third parties with regard to bankruptcy; •we default on any indebtedness which default is not waived and the applicable grace period has expired; or •we breach any representation, warranty, covenant or other term or condition of any document relating to the sale and registration rights regarding the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, 19 the common stock and the warrants, which, to the extent such breach is curable, such breach is not cured within 7 business days. There is no guarantee that we would be able to repay the amounts due upon an occurrence of a "triggering event." In addition, we cannot issue any preferred stock that is senior or on par with the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock with regard to dividends or liquidation without the approval of holders of a majority of the Series D. Convertible Preferred Stock. We are subject to several lawsuits relating to a fire that occurred on March 12, 2006 in Carson County, Texas which may have an adverse impact on us. Cano and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in several lawsuits relating to a fire that occurred on March 12, 2006 in Carson County, Texas. The alleged damages include damage to land and livestock, remedial expenses and claims relating to wrongful death. We entered into a Settlement Agreement with our insurance carrier pursuant to which we received $6,699,827 in exchange for releasing the insurance carrier from any future claims. This amount may not be sufficient to cover all of our litigation expenses and all the alleged damages. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock may continue to be volatile. Further, the limited market for our shares will make our price more volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Since we acquired Davenport Field Unit on May 28, 2004 and through the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, the market price for our common stock has ranged from $0.45 to $10.65. On September 6, 2007, our closing price on AMEX was $6.03. Any future market price for our shares may continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public's negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of AMEX, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Our common stock was listed on AMEX on May 5, 2005 under the symbol "CFW." In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on AMEX, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards. Among other things, these standards require that we remain current in our filings with the SEC and comply with certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we were to become noncompliant with AMEX's continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse affect on the price of our common stock. 20 If we are delisted from AMEX, our common stock may become subject to the "penny stock" rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which would make transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange or registered national securities association's automated quotation system and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: •that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and •the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: •obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person; and •make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: •sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and •that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean that it is less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and do not intend to pay cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures and to retire debt. Any decisions to pay dividends on the common stock in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, the available cash and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the terms of our revolving credit facility and our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. 21 Provisions in our corporate governance and loan documents, the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Cano, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, our bylaws, our loan documents and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage other persons from initiating a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider to be in the best interest of all stockholders, including takeover attempts that might result in a premium to be paid over the market price of our stock. The terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock permit the holders of such preferred stock the right to have their Series D Convertible Preferred Stock redeemed upon a "change of control." In addition, the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock do not permit us to enter into certain transactions that would constitute a "change of control" unless the successor entity assumes all of our obligations relating to the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and the holders of a majority of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock approve such assumption and the successor entity is publicly traded on the AMEX, the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, subject to the terms of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, we are authorized to issue additional shares of preferred stock. Subject to the terms of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has total discretion in the issuance and the determination of the rights and privileges of any shares of preferred stock which might be issued in the future, which rights and privileges may be detrimental to the holders of the common stock. It is not possible to state the actual effect of the authorization and issuance of a new series of preferred stock upon the rights of holders of the common stock and other series of preferred stock unless and until the board of directors determines the attributes of any new series of preferred stock and the specific rights of its holders. These effects might include: •restrictions on dividends on common stock and other series of preferred stock if dividends on any new series of preferred stock have not been paid; •dilution of the voting power of common stock and other series of preferred stock to the extent that a new series of preferred stock has voting rights, or to the extent that any new series of preferred stock is convertible into common stock; •dilution of the equity interest of common stock and other series of preferred stock; and •limitation on the right of holders of common stock and other series of preferred stock to share in Cano's assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference attributable to any new series of preferred stock. The terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and the provisions in our corporate governance documents regarding the granting of additional preferred stock may deter or render more difficult proposals to acquire control of our company, including proposals a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest, impede or lengthen a change in membership of our Board of Directors and make removal of our management more difficult. Furthermore, Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between our company and owners of 15% or more of our common stock. These provisions apply even if an acquisition proposal is considered beneficial by some stockholders and therefore could depress the value of our common stock. 22 The conversion price of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock may be a lowered if we issue shares of our common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price which could cause further dilution to our common stockholders. Subject to certain exclusions, if we issue common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price for our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock, the conversion price shall be adjusted downward which would further dilute our common stock holders upon conversion. Our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock has voting rights both together with and separate from our common stock which could adversely affect our common stockholders. The holders of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock vote together with the holders of our common stock on an as converted basis, subject to a limitation on how many votes the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock holders may cast if the conversion price falls below $4.79. In addition, approval of holders of a majority of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock is required for us to take the following actions: •to modify the certificate of incorporation or bylaws in a manner adverse to the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock; •increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock; •create any class of preferred stock that has a preference over or is in parity with the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to dividends or liquidation; •purchase, repurchase or redeem any share of common stock; •pay dividends or make any other distribution on the common stock; or •circumvent a right of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. These voting rights may have an adverse impact on the common stock and the voting power of our common stockholders. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including withholding tax) on gains realized on disposition of our shares, and U.S. investors selling our shares may be required to certify as to their status in order to avoid withholding. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, a non-U.S. holder of our common stock will generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gains realized on a sale or other disposition of our common stock. Certain non-U.S. holders of our common stock may be eligible for an exception to the foregoing general rule if our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which the sale or disposition occurs. However, we cannot offer any assurance that our common stock will be so traded in the future. If our common stock is not considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which a sale or disposition occurs, the buyer or other transferee of our common stock will generally be required to withhold tax at the rate of 10% on the sales price or other amount realized, unless the transferor furnishes an affidavit certifying that it is not a foreign person in the manner and form specified in applicable Treasury regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 