ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If any of the following events actually occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. If economic conditions deteriorate further, our borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases, these conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declining real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events may adversely affect our financial results. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate related loans, continued decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans in our portfolio. Although the adverse economic climate during the past two years has not severely impacted us due to our strict underwriting standards, further adverse changes in the economy, including increased unemployment or the economy moving back into a recession, could have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. If U.S. markets and economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our liquidity could be adversely affected. Old Line Bank must maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure sufficient cash flow is available to satisfy current and future financial obligations including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding of operating costs and other corporate purposes. We obtain funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased, unsecured borrowings, brokered certificates of deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta and others. Economic uncertainty and disruptions in the financial system may adversely affect our liquidity. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past two years, falling real estate prices and increased foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset value write-downs by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and investment banks. These investment write-downs have caused financial institutions to seek additional capital. Should we experience a substantial deterioration in our financial condition or should disruptions in the financial markets restrict our funding, it would negatively impact our liquidity. To mitigate this risk, we closely monitor our liquidity and maintain a line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank and have received approval to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 18 Our need to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and our growth strategy. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to attract and retain personnel and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Old Line Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. In light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial sector, we fully expect there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions’ regulatory agencies in the near future. We further anticipate that additional laws and regulations may be enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis that could have an impact on our operations. Changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the service and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, increase compliance challenges and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Old Line Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Because Old Line Bank serves a limited market area in Maryland, economic downturn in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our current primary market area consists of the suburban Maryland (Washington, D.C. suburbs) counties of Prince George’s, Anne Arundel, Charles and northern St. Mary’s. We have expanded in Prince George’s County and Anne Arundel County, Maryland and may expand in contiguous northern and western counties, such as Montgomery County and Howard County, Maryland. However, broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. Overall, during 2008 and 2009, the business environment negatively impacted many businesses and households in the United States and worldwide. Although the economic decline has not impacted the suburban Maryland and Washington D.C. suburbs as adversely as other areas of the United States, it has caused an increase in unemployment and business failures and a decline in property values. As a result, if our market area continues to suffer an economic downturn, it may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects larger bank competitors. Our larger competitors serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market area. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and our business could suffer. Our success depends substantially on the skills and abilities of our senior management team, including Mr. Cornelsen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Burnett, our Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer, Ms. Rush, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Credit Officer and Ms. Burnett, our Executive Vice President and College Park Team Leader. They provide valuable services to us and would be difficult to replace. Although we have entered into employment agreements with these executives, with the exception of Ms. Burnett, the existence of such agreements does not assure that we will retain their services. Further, Ms. Burnett is not party to an employment agreement with us and could terminate her employment at any time. Also, our growth and success and our anticipated future growth and success, in a large part, is due and we anticipate will be due to the relationships maintained by our banking executives with our customers. The loss of services of one or more of these executives or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our business could suffer. The experienced commercial lenders that we have hired are not a party to any employment agreement with us and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason. 19 The federal agencies that regulate us are currently considering placing restrictions on executive compensation. This could cause the employment contracts with our management team to no longer be valid and this may effectively make our senior executive officers employees at will and could harm our ability to retain these individuals and our ability to attract and retain other key employees. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to attract new deposits, identify loan and investment opportunities and maintain adequate capital levels. We may also grow through acquisitions of existing financial institutions or branches thereof. There are no guarantees that our expansion strategies will be successful. Also, in order to effectively manage our anticipated and/or actual loan growth we have and may continue to make additional investments in equipment and personnel, which also will increase our non-interest expense. We opened a new branch in Crofton in Anne Arundel County, Maryland and a new branch in Bowie in Prince George’s County, Maryland during 2009. With respect to these branches or any other branches that we may open, we may not be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets for such new branches. If we were to acquire another financial institution or branch thereof, we may not be able to integrate the institution or branch into our operations. Also, the costs to start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing financial institutions or branches thereof, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, will increase our non-interest expense. It may also be difficult to adequately and profitably manage the anticipated growth from the new branches or acquisitions and we may not be able to maintain the relatively low levels of charge-offs and nonperforming loans that we have experienced. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, growth could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our focus on commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses. We offer a variety of loans including commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, home equity loans and consumer loans. We secure many of our loans with real estate (both residential and commercial) in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C. During 2008 and 2009, property values declined in our market, energy prices were volatile, and there were rising private sector layoffs and unemployment, which caused consumer lending to slow. Although we believe our credit underwriting adequately considers these factors, further weakness in the economy and the real estate market could adversely affect our customers’ ability to repay their loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. Our concentrations of loans in various categories may also increase the risk of credit losses. We currently invest more than 25% of our capital in various loan types and industry segments, including commercial real estate loans, marine loans and loans to the hospitality industry (hotels/motels). While recent declines in the local commercial real estate market have not caused the collateral securing our loans to exceed acceptable loan to value ratios, a further deterioration in the commercial real estate market could cause deterioration in the collateral securing these loans and/or a decline in our customers’ earning capacity. This could negatively impact us. Although we have made a large portion of our hospitality loans to long-term, well established operators in strategic locations, a continued decline in the occupancy rate in these facilities could negatively impact their earnings. This could adversely impact their ability to repay their loan which would adversely impact our net income. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Management, through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, even under normal economic conditions, we cannot predict such losses with certainty. The unprecedented volatility experienced in the financial and capital markets during the last two to three years makes this determination even more difficult as processes we use to estimate the allowance for loan losses may no longer be dependable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions that may not be accurate. As a result, we cannot be sure that our allowance is or will be adequate in the future. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, our earnings will suffer. 20 As of December 31, 2009, commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate mortgage loans comprise approximately 85.78% of our loan portfolio. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate or consumer loans and typically have larger balances than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. A deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. Such an increase could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy, and geo-political stability, are not predictable or controllable. Additionally, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. We seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings are more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature and re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether we are more asset sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining this neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer. The market value of our investments could negatively impact stockholders’ equity. We have designated approximately 82.83% of our investment securities portfolio (and 7.84% of total assets) at December 31, 2009 as available for sale. Temporary unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available for sale portfolio are “marked to market” and are reflected as a separate item in stockholders’ equity, net of taxes. As of December 31, 2009, we had temporary unrealized gains in our available for sale portfolio of $368,880 (net of taxes). As a result of the recent economic recession and the continued economic slowdown, several municipalities have reported budget deficits and companies have reported lower earnings. These budget deficits and lower earnings could cause temporary and other-than temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio and cause us to report lower net income and a decline in stockholders’ equity. Old Line Bank faces substantial competition which could adversely affect our growth and operating results. Old Line Bank operates in a competitive market for financial services and faces intense competition from other financial institutions both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Many of these financial institutions have been in business for many years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases, have greater financial resources and lending limits than Old Line Bank, and are able to offer certain services that we are not able to offer. If Old Line Bank cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, its operating results will suffer, as will its opportunities for growth. We face limits on our ability to lend. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2009, we were able to lend approximately $5.4 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We generally try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. 21 The costs of being a public company are proportionately higher for small companies like us due to the requirement of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. These regulations are applicable to our company. We expect to experience increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These necessary costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable as we are not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. 