Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any of the following events, should they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. As discussed above in "Item 1—Business," in May 2013 we acquired WSB Holdings. The ultimate success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our businesses with WSB Holdings'. It is possible that the continuing integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of key depositors or other bank customers, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain our relationships with our clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. We may not have adequately assessed the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. Current accounting guidance requires that we record assets and liabilities at their estimated fair values on the purchase date. In accordance with accounting for business combinations, we included the credit losses evident in the fair value of loans at the date of our acquisition of WSB and eliminated the allowance for 18 Table of Contents loan losses maintained by WSB at the acquisition date. The determination of fair value requires that we consider a number of factors including the remaining life of the acquired loans and deposits, estimated prepayments or withdrawals, estimated loss ratios, estimated value of the underlying collateral, and the net present value of expected cash flows. Actual deviations from these predicted cash flows, maturities or repayments or the underlying value of the collateral may mean that our present value determination is inaccurate. This may cause fluctuations in interest income, non-interest income, provision expense, interest expense and non-interest expense and negatively impact our results of operations. A continuation or worsening of current economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declining real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events may adversely affect our financial results. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2007 through 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven, and unemployment levels remain high. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Although signs of stability have emerged, we expect that the business environment in the State of Maryland and the entire United States will continue to present challenges for the foreseeable future. Further continuing economic uncertainty, including regarding concerns about U.S. debt levels and related governmental actions, including potential tax increases and cuts in government spending, may hamper the ongoing recovery or otherwise negatively impact economic conditions going forward. In addition, continued elevated unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming and criticized classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although the adverse economic climate during the past several years has not severely impacted us due to our strict underwriting standards, further adverse changes in the economy, including decreases in current real estate values, increased unemployment or the economy moving back into a recession, could have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. A continuation or worsening of credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity. Old Line Bank must maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure cash flow is available to satisfy current and future financial obligations including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding of operating costs and other corporate purposes. We obtain funding through deposits and various short term and long term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased, unsecured borrowings, brokered certificates of deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta and others. Economic uncertainty and disruptions in the financial system may adversely affect our liquidity. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past several years, falling real estate prices and increased foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset value write downs by financial institutions, including government sponsored entities and investment banks. These investment write downs have caused financial institutions to seek additional capital. Should we experience a substantial deterioration in our financial condition or should disruptions in the financial markets restrict our funding, it would negatively impact our liquidity. To mitigate this risk, we closely monitor our liquidity and maintain a line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank and have received approval to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Our need to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and our growth strategy. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC 19 Table of Contents insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to attract and retain personnel and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. In light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial sector, we fully expect there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions' regulatory agencies in the near future. We further anticipate that regulatory authorities may enact additional laws and regulations in response to the ongoing financial crisis that could have an impact on our operations. Changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the service and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, increase compliance challenges and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Old Line Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the "CFPB"), includes provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation disclosure of all SEC reporting companies, allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts, broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments, and includes new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations to implement its various provisions. There are a number of regulations under the Dodd-Frank act that have not yet been proposed or adopted. We will not know the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business for years until regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations and will likely result in additional costs and a diversion of management's time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Because we serve a limited market area in Maryland, an economic downturn in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our current primary market area consists of the suburban Maryland (Washington, D.C. suburbs) counties of Anne Arundel, Calvert, Charles, Montgomery, Prince George's and St. Mary's. We have expanded in the counties in which we have historically operated and into Calvert, Montgomery and St. Mary's Counties, Maryland and may expand in contiguous northern and western counties, such as Howard County, Maryland. However, broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. Overall, during the last five years, the business environment negatively impacted many businesses and households in the United States and worldwide. Although the economic decline has not impacted the suburban Maryland and Washington D.C. suburbs as adversely as other areas of the United States, it has caused an increase in unemployment and business failures and a decline in property values. As a result, if our market area continues to suffer an economic downturn, it may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects larger bank competitors. In particular, due to the proximity of our primary market area to Washington, D.C., decreases in spending by the Federal government could impact us more than banks that serve a larger or a different geographical area. Our larger competitors, for example, serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same 20 Table of Contents economic conditions that may exist in our market area. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. We originate and retain in our portfolio residential mortgage loans. A continued downturn in the local real estate market and economy could adversely affect earnings. Our loan portfolio includes residential mortgage loans that we originate. Although the local real estate market and economy in our primary market areas have performed better than many other markets, a downturn could cause higher unemployment, more delinquencies, and could adversely affect the value of properties securing loans. In addition, the real estate market may take longer to recover or not recover to previous levels. These risks increase the probability of an adverse impact on our financial results as fewer borrowers would be eligible to borrow and property values could be below necessary levels required for adequate coverage on the requested loan. Proposed and final regulations could restrict our ability to originate residential real estate loans. The CFPB has issued a rule, effective January 10, 2014, designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would otherwise hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this "qualified mortgage" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB's rule, a "qualified mortgage" loan must not contain certain specified features. The rule also establishes general underwriting criteria for qualified mortgages, including that the consumer must have a total (or "back end") debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower on the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more costly and/or or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain "not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a qualified residential mortgage." The regulatory agencies initially issued a proposed rule to implement this requirement in April 2011. A revised proposed rule was issued in August 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the definition of "qualified residential mortgage" can be no broader than the definition of "qualified mortgage" issued by the CFPB for purposes of its regulations. Although the final rule with respect to the retention of credit risk has not yet been issued, the final rule could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict our ability to make loans. We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and our business could suffer. Our success depends substantially on the skills and abilities of our executive management team, including James W. Cornelsen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph E. Burnett, our Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer, John Miller, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, and Mark A. Semanie, our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Acting Chief Financial Officer. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Miller, and he is therefore free to unilaterally terminate his employment. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Cornelsen, Burnett and Semanie, the existence of such agreements does not assure that we will retain their services. These executives provide valuable services to us and would be difficult to replace. Also, our growth and success and our anticipated future growth and success, in a large part, is due and we anticipate will be due to the relationships maintained by our banking executives with our customers. 21 Table of Contents The loss of services of one or more of these executives or of other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our business could suffer. The experienced commercial lenders that we have hired are not a party to any employment agreement with us and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to attract new deposits, identify loan and investment opportunities and maintain adequate capital levels. We may also grow through acquisitions of existing financial institutions or branches thereof. There are no guarantees that our expansion strategies will be successful. Also, in order to effectively manage our anticipated and/or actual loan growth we have and may continue to make additional investments in equipment and personnel, which also will increase our non-interest expense. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, growth could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our concentrations of loans in various categories may also increase the risk of credit losses. We currently invest more than 25% of our capital in various loan types and industry segments, including commercial real estate loans and loans to the hospitality industry (hotels/motels). While recent declines in the local commercial real estate market have not caused the collateral securing our loans to exceed acceptable loan to value ratios, a further deterioration in the commercial real estate market could cause deterioration in the collateral securing these loans and/or a decline in our customers' earning capacity. This could negatively impact us. Although we have made a large portion of our hospitality loans to long term, well established operators in strategic locations, a continued decline in the occupancy rate in these facilities could negatively impact their earnings. This could adversely impact their ability to repay their loan, which would adversely impact our net income. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Management, through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, even under normal economic conditions, we cannot predict such losses with certainty. The unprecedented volatility experienced in the financial and capital markets during the last several years makes this determination even more difficult as processes we use to estimate the allowance for loan losses may no longer be dependable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions that may not be accurate. As a result, we cannot be sure that our allowance is or will be adequate in the future. If management's assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, our earnings will suffer. As of December 31, 2013, commercial and industrial and commercial real estate mortgage loans comprise approximately 74.62% of our loan portfolio. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate or consumer loans and typically have larger balances than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. A deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. Such an increase could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on our "net interest income," which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy, and geopolitical stability, are not predictable or controllable. Additionally, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. 22 Table of Contents Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. We seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or reprice during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings are more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature and reprice in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether we are more asset than liability sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining this neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer. The market value of our investments could negatively impact stockholders' equity. We have designated all of our investment securities portfolio (or 14.8% of total assets) at December 31, 2013 as available for sale. We "mark to market" temporary unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available for sale portfolio and reflect this adjustment as a separate item in stockholders' equity, net of taxes. As of December 31, 2013, we had temporary unrealized losses in our available for sale portfolio of $3.4 million (net of taxes). As a result of the recent economic recession and the continued economic slowdown, several municipalities continue to report budget deficits and companies continue to report lower earnings. These budget deficits and lower earnings could cause temporary and other than temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio and cause us to report lower net income and a decline in stockholders' equity. Any future issuances of common stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise could dilute your ownership of Old Line Bancshares. We may use our common stock to acquire other companies or to make investments in banks and other complementary businesses in the future. We may also issue common stock, or securities convertible into common stock, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital in connection with future acquisitions, to satisfy regulatory capital requirements or for general corporate purposes. Any such stock issuances would dilute your ownership interest in Old Line Bancshares and may dilute the per-share value of the common stock. Our future acquisitions, if any, may cause us to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. While we currently have no agreements to acquire additional financial institutions, we may do so in the future if an attractive acquisition opportunity arises that is consistent with our business plan. Any future business acquisitions could be material to us, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses into Old Line Bancshares could have a material effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, any acquisition could require us to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, we could become more susceptible to future economic downturns and competitive pressures. We face limits on our ability to lend. The amount of our capital limits the amount that we can loan to a single borrower. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2013, we were able to lend approximately $15.7 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our larger competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We generally try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. Additional capital may not be available when needed or required by regulatory authorities. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In 23 Table of Contents addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance future acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or our regulators may require that we raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms if we needed to raise additional capital. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing stockholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on desirable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face substantial competition which could adversely affect our growth and operating results. We operate in a competitive market for financial services and face intense competition from other financial institutions both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Many of these financial institutions have been in business for many years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases, have greater financial resources and lending limits than we do, and are able to offer certain services that we are not able to offer. If we cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, our operating results will suffer, as will our opportunities for growth. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure we use, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers, and inhibit current and potential customers from our Internet banking services, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Each year, we add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches including firewalls and penetration testing, but there can be no assurance that such security measures will be effective in preventing such breaches, damage or failures. We continue to investigate cost effective measures to mitigate any potential losses, and have insurance protection; intended to cover losses due to network security breaches; there is no guarantee, however, that such insurance, would cover all costs associated with any breach, damage or failure of our computer systems and network infrastructure. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that they have historically held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 