Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial or sustained decline in prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow. Our revenues and operating results depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the crude oil and natural gas we produce and sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. The prices we receive for our crude oil and natural gas are based upon factors that are beyond our control, including: •worldwide and domestic demands and supplies of oil and natural gas; •weather conditions; •the price and availability of alternative fuels; •the availability of pipeline capacity; •the price and level of foreign imports; •domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; •the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; •political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and •the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various and numerous federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, spacing of wells, injection of substances, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. Certain federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations, exist for the purpose of protecting the human health and the environment. The transportation and storage of refined products include the risk that refined products and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies and private parties 12 Table of Contents for natural resources damages, personal injury, or property damages and significant business interruption. We own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined and unrefined products for many years. Many of these properties have also been operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control. As a result, we may incur substantial expenditures and/or liabilities to third parties or governmental entities which could have a material adverse effect on us. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive, and we may not be able to raise the capital needed to conduct our operations as planned or to make strategic acquisitions. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition of, exploration for and development of, crude oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings and sales of equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •our proved reserves; •the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; •the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and •our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. Any one of these variables can materially affect our ability to access the capital markets. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our credit agreements decreases as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to fund future development projects. We may, from time to time, seek additional financing, either in the form of increased bank borrowings, public or private sales of debt or equity securities or other forms of financing, or consider selling non-core assets to raise additional operating capital. However, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or sell non-core assets upon terms acceptable to us. Risks Related to Our Business Our limited history makes an evaluation of us and our future difficult and profits are not assured. In view of our limited history in the oil and natural gas business, you may have difficulty in evaluating us and our business and prospects. Since May 2004, we have acquired rights in oil and natural gas properties and undertaken certain exploitation activities. We are in the early stages of two waterfloods and one ASP project. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies similar to ourselves. Generally, for our business plan to succeed, we must successfully undertake the following activities: •develop our oil and natural gas properties, including the successful application of EOR technologies, to the point at which oil and natural gas are being produced in commercially viable quantities; •contract with third parties regarding services necessary to develop our oil and natural gas properties; •contract with transporters and purchasers of our oil and natural gas production; •maintain access to funds to pursue our capital-intensive business plan; •comply with all applicable laws and regulations; •implement and successfully execute our business strategy; 13 Table of Contents •find and acquire rights in strategic oil and natural gas properties; •respond to competitive developments and market changes; and •attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in undertaking such activities. Our failure to successfully undertake most of the activities described above could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that sales of our oil and natural gas production will be able to sustain profitability in any future period. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital when needed, we will not be able to continue with our business strategy. Our business strategy includes developing and acquiring interests in mature oil fields with established primary and/or secondary reserves that may possess significant remaining upside exploitation potential by implementing various secondary and/or tertiary EOR techniques. As we continue our business plan, we may require additional capital to finance acquisitions as well as to conduct our EOR operations. We may not be able to obtain financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. If we cannot raise the capital required to implement our business strategy, we may be required to curtail operations or develop a different strategy, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, any debt financing must be repaid and redeemable preferred stock must be redeemed regardless of whether or not we generate profits or cash flows from our business activities. We will need to obtain funds from additional financings or other sources for our business activities. If new capital is raised in the form of equity, your ownership and voting rights in our securities may be diluted. In addition, if we do not receive these funds, we would need to reduce, delay or eliminate some of our expenditures. We have sustained recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. Over the periods presented in the accompanying financial statements, our growth has been funded through a combination of equity financings, borrowings under our credit agreements, the sale of assets and cash flows from operating activities. As of June 30, 2009, we had approximately $0.4 million of cash and cash equivalents available to fund operations. We review cash flow forecasts and budgets periodically. We believe that we currently have sufficient cash and financing capabilities to meet our funding requirements until the end of Fiscal Year 2010. However, we have experienced, and continue to experience, negative operating margins and negative cash flows from operations. See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We will need to raise additional capital to accomplish our business plan over the next several years. We expect to seek to obtain additional funding through debt and/or equity financing in the capital markets. Equity financings may result in dilution to existing stockholders and may involve securities that have rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to our common stock. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms upon which such financing and capital might be available. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to reduce, delay or eliminate development expenditures, seek to enter into a business combination transaction with other companies or sell assets. These transactions may not be available to us when needed or on terms acceptable or favorable to us. The actual quantities and present value of our proved reserves may be lower than we have estimated. This annual report contains estimates of our proved reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas 14 Table of Contents prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from these estimates and vary over time. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of drilling, results of secondary and tertiary recovery applications, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Approximately 79% of our total proved reserves as of June 30, 2009 consisted of undeveloped reserves, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Approximately 79% of our total proved reserves as of June 30, 2009 were undeveloped. While we plan to develop and produce all of our proved reserves, these reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Furthermore, not all of our undeveloped or developed non-producing reserves may be ultimately produced in the time periods we have planned, nor at the costs we have budgeted, or at all. As of June 30, 2009, estimated development costs for our PDNP and PUD reserves were approximately $4.6 million and $328.0 million, respectively, through 2016. We may not achieve the production growth we anticipate from our properties or properties we acquire. Our operational strategy is to implement waterflood and EOR techniques upon our existing properties. The performance of waterflood and EOR techniques is often difficult to predict and takes an extended period of time from first investment until actual production. Additionally, we may not achieve the anticipated production growth from properties we own or acquire in the future. Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped leaseholds. We expect acquisitions to also contribute to our future growth. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, recovery applicability from waterflood and EOR techniques, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform reviews of acquired properties which we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, such reviews will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, these reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Additionally, we do not inspect every well or property. Even when we inspect a well or property, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. It is our current intention to continue focusing on acquiring properties located in onshore United States. To the extent that we acquire properties substantially different from the properties in our primary operating regions or acquire properties that require different technical expertise, we may not be able to realize the economic benefits of these acquisitions. 15 Table of Contents Exploration and development drilling and the application of waterflooding and EOR techniques may not result in commercially productive reserves. The new wells we drill or participate in, whether undertaken in primary drilling or utilizing waterflood or EOR techniques may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment. The engineering data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively, prior to beginning a project, that crude oil or natural gas is present in the reservoir or that those reserves can be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to generate an economic return. Further, our drilling and other operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including but not limited to: •unexpected drilling conditions; •title and permitting problems; •pressure or irregularities in formations; •equipment failures or accidents; •volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices; •adverse weather conditions; and •increases in the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, chemicals, drilling rigs and equipment. Certain of our current development and exploration (waterflood or EOR techniques where no proved waterflood or EOR reserves have previously been recorded) activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While all crude oil and natural gas activities, whether developmental or exploratory, involve these risks, exploratory activities involve greater risks of failure to find and produce commercial quantities of crude oil or natural gas. The departure of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to run our business. Our future success is dependent on the personal efforts, performance and abilities of key management, including S. Jeffrey Johnson, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Benjamin Daitch, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Patrick McKinney, Senior Vice President—Engineering and Operations; Michael J. Ricketts, Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer; and Phillip Feiner, Vice President, Corporate Secretary and General Counsel. All of these individuals are integral parts of our daily operations. We have employment agreements with each of them. We do not maintain any key life insurance policies for any of our executive officers or other personnel. The loss of any officer could significantly impact our business until adequate replacements can be identified and put in place. We face strong competition from larger oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors include large integrated oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of these competitors are well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we have. These larger competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are, and will be, increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to many restrictions under our credit agreements which may adversely impact our future operations. We may depend on our credit agreements for future capital needs. As required by our credit agreements, we have pledged substantially all of our oil and natural gas properties as collateral to secure the payment of our indebtedness. The credit agreements have certain restrictions on our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, sell assets, grant liens, repurchase, redeem or retire our securities, enter into specific transactions with our subsidiaries or affiliates and engage in business combinations. Our credit agreements prohibit us from declaring or paying dividends on our common stock. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. These financial covenants and ratios could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general, including the current downturn in the economy, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. Although we are currently in compliance with these covenants, in the past we have had to request waivers from or enter into amendments with our lenders to avoid default because of our anticipated non-compliance with certain financial covenants and ratios. Any future default, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreements. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it, which could force us to sell significant assets or to have our assets foreclosed upon which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. Even if new financing were available in light of the current credit market, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Based on our current estimates of income and expenses, it appears likely that we may fall out of compliance with one or more of our financial covenants under the Senior and/or the Subordinated Credit Agreements as of December 31, 2009. We are currently in discussions with our lenders regarding this possibility and potential remedies, including without limitation, obtaining waivers from the applicable covenants, entering into amendments to our credit agreements or raising additional capital through equity issuances. If we are unable to obtain such waivers, to negotiate such amendments or to obtain necessary funding from operations or outside capital raising activities, we could default on our obligations under one or both of our credit agreements, which default, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreements. In addition, our Senior Credit Agreement limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount, determined solely by the lenders, based upon projected cash flows from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loan. The lenders can independently adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our Senior Credit Agreement. Derivative activities create a risk of potentially limiting the ability to realize profits when prices increase. Pursuant to the terms of our credit agreements, we are required to maintain our existing commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of a decline in crude oil and natural gas prices. These commodity derivative contracts could prevent us from realizing the full advantage of increases in crude oil or natural gas prices if the NYMEX crude oil and natural gas prices exceed the contract price ceiling. In addition, these transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss if the counterparties to our derivative contracts fail to perform under the contracts. Also, increases in crude oil and natural gas prices negatively affect the fair value of our commodity derivatives contracts recorded on our balance sheet and, consequently, our reported net income. Changes in the recorded fair value of our derivatives contracts are marked to market through earnings and the decrease in the fair value of these contracts during any period could result in significant charges to earnings. We are currently unable to estimate the effects on earnings in future periods, but the effects could be significant. 17 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The year ended June 30, 2007 was the first year that we were subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing our internal controls and management's assessment. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, we may be in violation of our lending covenants, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could decrease as a result. During our evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for the year ended June 30, 2009, we concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). There can be no guarantee that we will not have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and internal controls in the future. Our business involves many operating risks, which may result in substantial losses, and insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect us against these risks. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, such as: •fires; •natural disasters; •explosions; •pressure forcing oil or natural gas out of the wellbore at a dangerous velocity coupled with the potential for fire or explosion; •weather; •failure of oilfield drilling and service tools; •changes in underground pressure in a formation that causes the surface to collapse or crater; •pipeline ruptures or cement failures; •environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases; and •availability of needed equipment at acceptable prices, including steel tubular products. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: •injury or loss of life; •damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; •pollution and other environmental damage; •regulatory investigations and penalties; •suspension of our operations; and •repair and remediation costs. Our liability for environmental hazards includes those created either by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease or by acquired companies prior to the date we acquire them. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Our insurance policies currently provide for $1,000,000 general liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage 18 Table of Contents including pollution, underground resources, blow-out and cratering. In addition, we have $1,000,000 coverage for our contractual obligations to our service contractors using their equipment downhole if it is damaged as a result of a blow-out. We have "an "Owned-Hired and Non-Owned" Commercial Automobile liability limit of $1,000,000. We also have secured $50,000,000 umbrella coverage in excess of the general liability and automobile liability. There is a $2,000,000 policy for control of well, redrill, and pollution on drilling wells and a $1,000,000 policy for control of well, redrill and pollution on producing wells. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover casualty losses or liabilities. Also, in the future we may not be able to obtain insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. We do not insure against the loss of oil or natural gas reserves as a result of operating hazards, insure against business interruption or insure our field production equipment against loss. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Part of our business is seasonal in nature which may affect the price of our oil and natural gas sales and severe weather may adversely impact our ability to deliver oil and natural gas production. Weather conditions affect the demand for and price of oil and natural gas. Demand for oil and natural gas is typically higher during winter months than summer months. However, warm winters can also lead to downward price trends. Therefore, our results of operations may be adversely affected by seasonal conditions. Severe weather can cause interruptions to our production and temporarily shut-in production from our wells. We are subject to potential early repayments as well as restrictions pursuant to the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock which may adversely impact our operations. Pursuant to the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock ("the Preferred Stock"), if a "triggering event" occurs, the holders of our Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to redeem their Preferred Stock at a price of at least 125% of the $1,000 per share stated value of the Preferred Stock plus accrued dividends. "Triggering events" include the following: •our common stock is suspended from trading or fails to be listed on the AMEX, the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market; •we fail to convert and do not cure this failure within 10 business days after the conversion date or give notice of our intention not to comply with a request for conversion; •we fail to pay for at least 5 business days any amount when due pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock or any documents related to the sale and registration rights of the Preferred Stock, common stock and warrants; •we take certain actions, or third parties take certain actions, with regard to bankruptcy; •we default on any indebtedness which default is not waived and the applicable grace period has expired; or •we breach any representation, warranty, covenant or other term or condition of any document relating to the sale and registration rights relating to the Preferred Stock, the common stock and the warrants, which, to the extent such breach is curable, such breach is not cured within 7 business days. There is no guarantee that we would be able to repay the amounts due under our Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of a "triggering event." 19 Table of Contents In addition, we cannot issue any preferred stock that is senior or on par with the Preferred Stock with regard to dividends or liquidation without the approval of holders of a majority of the Preferred Stock. We are subject to a lawsuit relating to a fire that occurred on March 12, 2006 in Carson County, Texas which may have an adverse impact on us. Cano and certain of its subsidiaries were defendants in several lawsuits relating to a fire that occurred on March 12, 2006 in Carson County, Texas and remain defendants in one of the lawsuits. With regard to the one remaining lawsuit, on June 21, 2007, the judge of the 100th Judicial District Court issued a Final Judgment (a) granting motions for summary judgment in favor of Cano and certain of its subsidiaries on plaintiffs' claims for (i) breach of contract/termination of an oil and gas lease and (ii) negligence; and (b) granting the plaintiffs' no-evidence motion for summary judgment on contributory negligence, assumption of risk, repudiation and estoppel affirmative defenses asserted by Cano and certain of its subsidiaries. The Final Judgment was appealed and a decision was reached on March 11, 2009, as the Court of Appeals for the Tenth District of Texas in Amarillo affirmed in part and reversed in part the ruling of the 100th Judicial District Court. The Court of Appeals (a) affirmed the trial court's granting of summary judgment in Cano's favor for breach of contract/termination of an oil and gas lease and (b) reversed the trial court's granting of summary judgment in Cano's favor on plaintiffs' claims of Cano's negligence. The Court of Appeals ordered the case remanded to the 100th Judicial District Court. On March 30, 2009, the plaintiffs filed a motion for rehearing with the Court of Appeals and requested a rehearing on the affirmance of the trial court's holding on the plaintiffs' breach of contract/termination of an oil and gas lease claim. On June 30, 2009, the Court of Appeals ruled to deny the plaintiff's motion for rehearing. On August 17, 2009, we filed an appeal with the Texas Supreme Court to request the reversal of the Court of Appeals ruling regarding our potential negligence. The remaining plaintiff alleges damages to land and livestock, certain expenses related to fighting the fire and remedial expenses totaling approximately $1.7 million to $1.8 million. In addition the remaining plaintiff seeks termination of certain oil and natural gas leases, reimbursement of their attorneys' fees and exemplary damages. Currently, known aggregate actual damage claims are approximately $1.8 million. However, the plaintiff has not provided actual damage claims for all of their claims. These actual damage claims do not include the additional claims by the plaintiffs for attorneys' fees and exemplary damages, the potential amounts of which cannot be reasonably estimated. There is no remaining insurance coverage for the fire litigation. We may not prevail in court or on further appeal or be able to settle the remaining lawsuit on acceptable terms. If there is an adverse judgment entered against us, based on the illiquid nature of a significant portion of our assets, we may not be able to (i) post a sufficient supersedeas bond during the appeal process of any adverse judgment, which may permit the plaintiffs to attempt to execute on any judgment pending appeal, and/or (ii) satisfy the amount of any adverse judgment. Currently, our lease operating expense per BOE is high in comparison to the oil and natural gas industry as a whole. Until such time as we achieve significant production growth from our waterfloods, our lease operating expense per BOE should remain higher than companies drilling for primary production. Our current net production of approximately 1,300 BOEPD is produced from our 1,924 wells. These higher operating costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock may continue to be volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Since we acquired Davenport Field Unit on May 28, 2004 and through the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the market price for our common stock has ranged from $0.22 to $10.65. On September 22, 2009, our closing price on the NYSE Amex was $1.08. Any future market price for our shares may continue to be very volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public's negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our stock price. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of NYSE Amex, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In order for our securities to be eligible for continued listing on NYSE Amex, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards. Among other things, these standards require that we remain current in our filings with the SEC and comply with certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we were to become noncompliant with NYSE Amex's continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse affect on the price of our common stock. This is also a "triggering event" under our Preferred Stock which could cause the holders of our Preferred Stock to have the right to require us to redeem their Preferred Stock at a price of at least 125% of the $1,000 per share stated value of the Preferred Stock plus accrued dividends. If we are delisted from NYSE Amex, our common stock may become subject to the "penny stock" rules of the SEC, which would make transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange or registered national securities association's automated quotation system and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: •that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and •the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: •obtain financial information and other information regarding the investment experience and objectives of the person; and •make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: •sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and 21 Table of Contents •confirms the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control the reports these analysts publish about us. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly-traded companies active in our industry and market, which may make it less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgraded our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and do not intend to pay cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures, and to retire debt. Any decisions to pay dividends on the common stock in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, available cash and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the terms of our credit agreements and our Preferred Stock. Provisions in our corporate governance and loan documents, the terms of our Preferred Stock and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Cano, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our Preferred Stock, our bylaws, our credit agreements and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage other persons from initiating a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider to be in the best interest of all stockholders, including takeover attempts that might result in a premium to be paid over the market price of our stock. The terms of our Preferred Stock give its holders the right to have their Preferred Stock redeemed upon a "change of control." In addition, the terms of our Preferred Stock do not permit us to enter into certain transactions that would constitute a "change of control" unless the successor entity assumes all of our obligations relating to the Preferred Stock and the holders of a majority of our Preferred Stock approve such assumption and the successor entity is publicly-traded on the NYSE Amex, the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, subject to the terms of the Preferred Stock, we are authorized to issue additional shares of preferred stock. Subject to the terms of the Preferred Stock and our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has total discretion in the issuance and the determination of the rights and privileges of any shares of preferred stock which might be issued in the future, which rights and privileges may be detrimental to the holders of the common stock. It is not possible to state the actual effect of the authorization and issuance of a new series of preferred stock upon the rights of holders of the common stock and other series of preferred stock unless and until the board of directors determines the attributes of any new series of preferred stock and the specific rights of its holders. These effects might include: •restrictions on dividends on common stock and other series of preferred stock if dividends on any new series of preferred stock have not been paid; 22 Table of Contents •dilution of the voting power of common stock and other series of preferred stock to the extent that a new series of preferred stock has voting rights, or to the extent that any new series of preferred stock is convertible into common stock; •dilution of the equity interest of common stock and other series of preferred stock; and •limitation on the right of holders of common stock and other series of preferred stock to share in Cano's assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference attributable to any new series of preferred stock. The terms of our Preferred Stock and the provisions in our corporate governance documents regarding the granting of additional preferred stock may deter or render more difficult proposals to acquire control of our company, including proposals a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest, impede or lengthen a change in membership of our Board of Directors and make removal of our management more difficult. Furthermore, Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between our company and owners of 15% or more of our common stock. These provisions apply even if an acquisition proposal is considered beneficial by some stockholders and therefore could depress the value of our common stock. The conversion price of our Preferred Stock may be lowered if we issue shares of our common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price which could cause further dilution to our common stockholders. Subject to certain exclusions, if we issue common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price for our Preferred Stock, the conversion price shall be adjusted downward which would further dilute our common stock holders upon conversion. Our Preferred Stock has voting rights both together with and separate from our common stock which could adversely affect our common stockholders. The holders of our Preferred Stock vote together with the holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis, subject to a limitation on how many votes the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock holders may cast if the conversion price falls below $4.79. In addition, approval of holders of a majority of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock is required for us to take the following actions: •to modify the certificate of incorporation or bylaws in a manner adverse to the Preferred Stock; •increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock; •create any class of preferred stock that has a preference over or is in parity with the Preferred Stock with respect to dividends or liquidation; •purchase, repurchase or redeem any share of common stock; •pay dividends or make any other distribution on the common stock; or •circumvent a right of the Preferred Stock. These voting rights may have an adverse impact on the common stock and the voting power of our common stockholders. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including withholding tax) on gains realized on disposition of our shares, and U.S. investors selling our shares may be required to certify as to their status in order to avoid withholding. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, a non-U.S. holder of our common stock will generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gains realized on a sale or other disposition of our common stock. Certain non-U.S. holders of our common stock may be eligible for an exception to the foregoing general rule if our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which the sale or disposition occurs. However, we cannot offer any assurance that our common stock will be so traded in the future. If our common stock is not considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which a sale or disposition occurs, the buyer or other transferee of our common stock will generally be required to withhold tax at the rate of 10% of the sales price or other amount realized, unless the transferor furnishes an affidavit certifying that it is not a foreign person in the manner and form specified in applicable Treasury regulations. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 