ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks, including the risks listed below. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the value of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Prolonged disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock. Global stock and credit markets have experienced prolonged price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. Commercial real estate classes in general have been adversely affected by this prolonged economic downturn and liquidity crisis. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets and have resulted in the scarcity of certain types of financing, and, in certain cases, making certain financing terms less attractive. If these conditions persist, lending institutions may be forced to exit markets such as repurchase lending, become insolvent or further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for our borrowers to repay our loans as they may experience difficulties in selling assets, increased costs of financing or obtaining financing at all. These events in the stock and credit markets may also make it more difficult or unlikely for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on us or the economy in general. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession, or declining real estate values could harm our operations. We believe the risks associated with our business are more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values will likely continue to minimize our level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy weakens. Declining real estate values also significantly increase the likelihood that we will continue to incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our cost on the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to the stockholders. Increases in loan loss reserves and other impairments are expected if economic conditions do not improve. A further decline in economic conditions could negatively impact the credit quality of our loans and investments portfolio. If we do not see a stabilization of the financial markets and such market conditions continue to decline further, we will likely experience significant increases in loan loss reserves, potential defaults and other asset impairment charges. Loan loss reserves are particularly difficult to estimate in a turbulent economic environment. We perform an evaluation of loans on a quarterly basis to determine whether an impairment is necessary and adequate to absorb probable losses. The valuation process for our loans and investments portfolio requires us to make certain estimates and judgments, which are particularly difficult to determine during a recession in which the 15 Table of Contents availability of commercial real estate credit is severely limited and commercial real estate transactions have dramatically decreased. Our estimates and judgments are based on a number of factors, including projected cash flows from the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans, loan structure, including the availability of reserves and recourse guarantees, likelihood of repayment in full at the maturity of a loan, potential for a refinancing market coming back to commercial real estate in the future and expected market discount rates for varying property types. If our estimates and judgments are not correct, our results of operations and financial condition could be severely impacted. Loan repayments are less likely in the current market environment. In a market in which liquidity is essential to our business, loan repayments have been a significant source of liquidity for us. However, many financial institutions have drastically curtailed new lending activity and real estate owners are having difficulty refinancing their assets at maturity. If borrowers are not able to refinance loans at their maturity, the loans could go into default and the liquidity that we would receive from such repayments will not be available. Furthermore, without a functioning commercial real estate finance market, borrowers that are performing on their loans will almost certainly extend such loans if they have that right, which will further delay our ability to access liquidity through repayments. We may not be able to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, for additional liquidity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Additional liquidity, future equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to access additional debt and equity capital depends on various conditions in these markets, which are beyond our control. If we are able to complete future equity offerings, they could be dilutive to our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Our inability to obtain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. We may be unable to invest excess equity capital on acceptable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to identify investments that meet our investment criteria and we may not be successful in closing the investments that we identify. Unless and until we identify investments consistent with our investment criteria, any excess equity capital may be used to repay borrowings under our term and revolving credit agreements and repurchase agreements, which would not produce a return on capital. In addition, the investments that we acquire with our equity capital may not produce a return on capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify attractive opportunities to invest our equity capital, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: • the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; • our financial performance; and • general stock and bond market conditions. The market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and dividends. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our book value per share of common stock. If our future earnings or dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. 16 Table of Contents Our stock could be at risk of being delisted by the New York Stock Exchange and could have a materially adverse effects on our business The price of our common stock has declined significantly and rapidly since September 2008. In the event we record additional losses, it is possible that the value of our common stock could decline further. This reduction in stock price could have materially adverse effects on our business, including reducing our ability to use our common stock as compensation or to otherwise provide incentives to employees and by reducing our ability to generate capital through stock sales or otherwise use our stock as currency with third parties. In the event that the average closing price of our common stock is less than $1.00 or our market capitalization is less than $25 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period, our stock could be delisted from the NYSE. The threat of delisting and/or a delisting of our common stock could have adverse effects by, among other things: • Reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • Reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • Reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our directors, officers and employees. A declining portfolio and reductions in debt could adversely affect the returns on our investments. Continued dislocations in the market will likely lead to a reduction in our loans and investments portfolio. Additionally, the majority of the proceeds received from repayments of loans are expected to be used to repay borrowings. This deleveraging will likely result in reduced returns on our investments. Our investments in commercial mortgage-related securities are subject to risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities, which may result in losses to us. Our investments in commercial mortgage-related securities involve special risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. The issuers of these securities are experiencing many of the same risks resulting from continued disruptions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions. In addition, our investments are also subject to the risks described above with respect to commercial real estate loans and mortgage-backed securities and similar risks, including risks of delinquency and foreclosure, the dependence upon the successful operation of, and net income from, real property, risks generally related to interests in real property, and risks that may be presented by the type and use of a particular commercial property. REITs have been severely impacted by the current economic environment and have had very little access to the capital markets or the debt markets in order to meet their existing obligations or to refinance maturing debt. We depend on key personnel with long standing business relationships, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of ACM as our manager and ACM’s officers and employees. In particular, the mortgage lending experience of Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Weber and the extent and nature of the relationships they have developed with developers and owners of multi-family and commercial properties and other financial institutions are critical to the success of our business. We cannot assure their continued employment with ACM or service as our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our or ACM’s management team could harm our business and our prospects. The real estate investment business is highly competitive. Our success depends on our ability to compete with other providers of capital for real estate investments. Our business is highly competitive. Competition may cause us to accept economic or structural features in our investments that we would not have otherwise accepted and it may cause us to search for investments in markets outside of our traditional product expertise. We compete for attractive investments with traditional lending sources, such as insurance companies and banks, as well as other REITs, specialty finance companies and private equity 17 Table of Contents vehicles with similar investment objectives, which may make it more difficult for us to consummate our target investments. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do, which provides them with greater operating flexibility and a competitive advantage relative to us. We may not achieve our targeted rate of return on our investments. We originate or acquire investments based on our estimates or projections of overall rates of return on such investments, which in turn are based upon, among other considerations, assumptions regarding the performance of assets, the amount and terms of available financing to obtain desired leverage and the manner and timing of dispositions, including possible asset recovery and remediation strategies, all of which are subject to significant uncertainty. In addition, events or conditions that we have not anticipated may occur and may have a significant effect on the actual rate of return received on an investment. As we acquire or originate investments for our balance sheet portfolio, whether as new additions or as replacements for maturing investments, there can be no assurance that we will be able to originate or acquire investments that produce rates of return comparable to returns on our existing investments. Our due diligence may not reveal all of a borrower’s liabilities and may not reveal other weaknesses in its business. Before investing in a company or making a loan to a borrower, we will assess the strength and skills of such entity’s management and other factors that we believe are material to the performance of the investment. In making the assessment and otherwise conducting customary due diligence, we will rely on the resources available to us and, in some cases, an investigation by third parties. This process is particularly important and subjective with respect to newly organized entities because there may be little or no information publicly available about the entities. There can be no assurance that our due diligence processes will uncover all relevant facts or that any investment will be successful. We invest in junior participation notes which may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. We invest in junior participation loans which is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to a senior note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for the junior participation loan after payment is made to the senior note holder. Since each transaction is privately negotiated, junior participation loans can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of junior participation loans to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each junior participation investment. A junior participation may not be liquid and, consequently, we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with a subordinate position in any investments we make could subject us to increased risk of losses. We invest in mezzanine loans which are subject to a greater risk of loss than loans with a first priority lien on the underlying real estate. We invest in mezzanine loans that take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of either the entity owning the property or a pledge of the ownership interests of the entity that owns the interest in the entity owning the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income producing real property because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or 18 Table of Contents all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. We invest in preferred equity investments, which involve a higher degree of risk than traditional debt financing due to a variety of factors, including that such investments are subordinate to other loans and are not secured by property underlying the investment. Furthermore, should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the partnership in which we have an interest, and not the property underlying our investment. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. We invest in multi-family and commercial real estate loans, which may involve a greater risk of loss than single family real estate loans. Our investments include multi-family and commercial real estate loans that are considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single family residential lending because of a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, dependency for repayment on successful operation of the mortgaged property and tenant businesses operating therein, and loan terms that include amortization schedules longer than the stated maturity and provide for balloon payments at stated maturity rather than periodic principal payments. In addition, the value of commercial real estate can be affected significantly by the supply and demand in the market for that type of property. Volatility of values of multi-family and commercial properties may adversely affect our loans and investments. Multi-family and commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, events such as natural disasters, including hurricanes and earthquakes, acts of war and/or terrorism and others that may cause unanticipated and uninsured performance declines and/or losses to us or the owners and operators of the real estate securing our investment; national, regional and local economic conditions, such as what we have experienced over the past two years (which may be adversely affected by industry slowdowns and other factors); local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of housing, retail, industrial, office or other commercial space); changes or continued weakness in specific industry segments; construction quality, construction cost, age and design; demographic factors; retroactive changes to building or similar codes; and increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs). In the event a property’s net operating income decreases, a borrower may have difficulty repaying our loan, which could result in losses to us. In addition, decreases in property values reduce the value of the collateral and the potential proceeds available to a borrower to repay our loans, which could also cause us to suffer losses. Many of our commercial real estate loans are funded with interest reserves and our borrowers may be unable to replenish those interest reserves once they run out. Given the transitional nature of many of our commercial real estate loans, we often require borrowers to post reserves to cover interest and operating expenses until the property cash flows are projected to increase sufficiently to cover debt service costs. We also generally required the borrower to replenish reserves if they become depleted due to underperformance or if the borrower wants to exercise extension options under the loan. Despite low interest rates, revenues on the properties underlying any commercial real estate loan investments will likely continue to decrease in the current economic environment, making it more difficult for borrowers to meet their payment obligations to us. We expect that in the future some of our borrowers may continue to have difficulty servicing our debt and will not have sufficient capital to replenish reserves, which could have a significant impact on our operating results and cash flow. We may not have control over certain of our loans and investments. Our ability to manage our portfolio of loans and investments may be limited by the form in which they are made. In certain situations, we may acquire investments subject to rights of senior classes and servicers under inter- 19 Table of Contents creditor or servicing agreements; acquire only a participation in an underlying investment; co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring non-controlling interests; or rely on independent third party management or strategic partners with respect to the management of an asset. Therefore, we may not be able to exercise control over the loan or investment. Such financial assets may involve risks not present in investments where senior creditors, servicers or third party controlling investors are not involved. Our rights to control the process following a borrower default may be subject to the rights of senior creditors or servicers whose interests may not be aligned with ours. A third party partner or co-venturer may have financial difficulties resulting in a negative impact on such assets and may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with ours. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third party partners or co-venturers. The impact of any future terrorist attacks and the availability of terrorism insurance expose us to certain risks. The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 disrupted the U.S. financial markets, including the real estate capital markets, and negatively impacted the U.S. economy in general. Any future terrorist attacks, the anticipation of any such attacks, and the consequences of any military or other response by the United States and its allies may have a further adverse impact on the U.S. financial markets and the economy generally. We cannot predict the severity of the effect that any such future events would have on the U.S. financial markets, the economy or our business. Any future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the credit quality of some of our loans and investments. Some of our loans and investments will be more susceptible to such adverse effects than others. We may suffer losses as a result of the adverse impact of any future terrorist attacks and these losses may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, the enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or the TRIA, and the subsequent enactment of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007, which extended TRIA through the end of 2014, requires insurers to make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies in order to receive federal compensation under TRIA for insured losses. However, this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. The absence of affordable insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market’s overall liquidity and may reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us and the pace at which we are able to make investments. If the properties that we invest in are unable to obtain affordable insurance coverage, the value of those investments could decline and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our investment. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires us to assess and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and requires our independent registered public accounting firm to opine as to the adequacy of our assessment and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in absence of a temporary exemption currently granted to smaller reporting companies. In the future, we may not receive an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with regard to our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain an exemption from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act would adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that we conduct, and we intend to conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Pursuant to Section 3(c) (5) (C) of the Investment Company Act, entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring “mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate” are exempted from regulation thereunder. The staff of the SEC has provided guidance on the availability of this exemption. Specifically, the staff’s position generally requires us to maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in “qualifying real estate interests.” To constitute a qualifying real estate interest under this 55% test, an interest in real estate must meet various criteria. Loans that are secured by 20 Table of Contents equity interests in entities that directly or indirectly own the underlying real property, rather than a mortgage on the underlying property itself, and ownership of equity interests in real property owners may not qualify for purposes of the 55% test depending on the type of entity. Mortgage-related securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may also not qualify for purposes of the 55% test. Therefore, our ownership of these types of loans and equity interests may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. To the extent that we do not comply with the SEC staff’s 55% test, another exemption or exclusion from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act or other interpretations under the Investment Company Act, we may be deemed to be an investment company. If we fail to maintain an exemption or other exclusion from registration as an investment company we could, among other things, be required either (a) to substantially change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (b) to register as an investment company, either of which could have an adverse effect on us and the market price of our common stock. If we were required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would become subject to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration and other matters. Risks Related to Our Financing and Hedging Activities We may not be able to access financing sources on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We finance our assets over the short and long-term through a variety of means, including repurchase agreements, term facilities, credit facilities, junior subordinated notes, CDOs and other structured financings. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the markets for financing in this manner that are beyond our control, including lack of liquidity and wider credit spreads, which we have seen over the past year. If these conditions continue to worsen, we cannot assure you that these sources are feasible as a means of financing our assets, as there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed or extended at expiration. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase facilities may not accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants relating to our operations. Each of our credit facilities contains various financial covenants and restrictions, including minimum net worth, minimum liquidity and debt-to-equity ratios. Other restrictive covenants contained in our credit facility agreements include covenants that prohibit us from affecting a change in control, disposing of or encumbering assets being financed and restricting us from making any material amendment to our underwriting guidelines without approval of the lender. At December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all financial covenants and restrictions for the periods presented with the exception of a minimum tangible net worth requirement with Wachovia at December 31, 2009. Our tangible net worth was $98.6 million at December 31, 2009 and we were required to maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $150.0 million with this financial institution. We have obtained a waiver of this covenant, as well as the minimum ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth covenant, from this financial institution for December 31, 2009 and through an extended payoff date of August 27, 2010, in conjunction with amendments to our credit facilities. We have also obtained temporary amendments thereafter until December 2010 for the quarterly minimum GAAP tangible net worth covenants, from $150.0 million to $50.0 million, and quarterly maximum ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth covenants, from 4.5 to 1 to 5.8 to 1. However, if economic conditions continue to weaken and capital for commercial real estate remains scarce, we expect credit quality in our assets and across the commercial real estate sector to decline as well. While we remain focused on actively managing our loans and investments portfolio, a continued weak environment will make maintaining compliance with the credit facilities’ covenants more difficult. If we are not in compliance with 21 Table of Contents any of our covenants, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive or amend such non-compliance in the future and any such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on us. Investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. The continued turmoil in the structured finance markets, including sub-prime residential loans and commercial real estate loans, has negatively impacted the credit markets generally. As a result, investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. In recent years, we have relied to a substantial extent on CDO financings to obtain match-funded financing for our investments. Until and unless the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to finance our investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of financing to finance our investments on a long-term basis. There can be no assurance as to when or if the demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return, what the terms of such securities investors will demand, or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to us. We may not be able to obtain the level of leverage necessary to optimize our return on investment. Our return on investment depends, in part, upon our ability to grow our balance sheet portfolio of invested assets through the use of leverage at a cost of debt that is lower than the yield earned on our investments. We generally obtain leverage through the issuance of collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, term and revolving credit agreements, repurchase agreements and other borrowings. Our future ability to obtain the necessary leverage on beneficial terms ultimately depends upon the quality of the portfolio assets that collateralize our indebtedness. Our failure to obtain and/or maintain leverage at desired levels, or to obtain leverage on attractive terms, would have a material adverse effect on our performance. Moreover, we are dependent upon a few lenders to provide financing under credit agreements and repurchase agreements for our origination or acquisition of loans and investments and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed or extended at expiration. Our ability to obtain financing through CDOs is subject to conditions in the debt capital markets which are impacted by factors beyond our control that may at times be adverse and reduce the level of investor demand for such securities. The credit facilities and repurchase agreements that we use to finance our investments may require us to provide additional collateral. We use credit facilities and repurchase agreements to finance some of our investments. If the market value of the loans pledged or sold by us to a funding source decline in value, we may be required by the lending institution to provide additional collateral or pay down a portion of the funds advanced. We may not have the funds available to pay down our debt, which could result in defaults. Posting additional collateral to support our repurchase and credit facilities would reduce our liquidity and limit our ability to leverage our assets. In the event we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet such requirements, lending institutions can accelerate our indebtedness, increase interest rates and terminate our ability to borrow. Such a situation would likely result in a rapid deterioration of our financial condition and possibly necessitate a filing for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code. Further, facility providers may require us to maintain a certain amount of uninvested cash or set aside unlevered assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on assets. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Our use of leverage may create a mismatch with the duration and index of the investments that we are financing. We attempt to structure our leverage such that we minimize the difference between the term of our investments and the leverage we use to finance such an investment. In the event that our leverage is shorter term than the financed investment, we may not be able to extend or find appropriate replacement leverage and that would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and our returns. In the event that our leverage is longer term than the financed investment, we may not be able to repay such leverage or replace the financed investment with an optimal substitute or at all, which will negatively impact our desired leveraged returns. 22 Table of Contents We attempt to structure our leverage such that we minimize the difference between the index of our investments and the index of our leverage — financing floating rate investments with floating rate leverage and fixed rate investments with fixed rate leverage. If such a product is not available to us from our lenders on reasonable terms, we may use hedging instruments to effectively create such a match. For example, in the case of fixed rate investments, we may finance such an investment with floating rate leverage, but effectively convert all or a portion of the attendant leverage to fixed rate using hedging strategies. Our attempts to mitigate such risk are subject to factors outside of our control, such as the availability to us of favorable financing and hedging options, which is subject to a variety of factors, of which duration and term matching are only two such factors. We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our portfolio, which may subject us to an increased risk of loss, adversely affecting the return on our investments and reducing cash available for distribution. We utilize a significant amount of debt to finance our operations, which may compound losses and reduce the cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We generally leverage our portfolio through the use of bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, and securitizations, including the issuance of CDOs and other borrowings. The leverage we employ varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities, the loan-to-value and debt service coverage ratios of our assets, the yield on our assets, the targeted leveraged return we expect from our portfolio and our ability to meet ongoing covenants related to our asset mix and financial performance. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral for our borrowings. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that we can derive from the assets we acquire. Our debt service payments, including payments in connection with any CDOs, reduce the net income available for distributions. Moreover, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. Currently, neither our charter nor our bylaws impose any limitations on the extent to which we may leverage our assets. We may guarantee some of our leverage and contingent obligations. We guarantee the performance of some of our obligations, including but not limited to some of our repurchase agreements, derivative agreements, and unsecured indebtedness. Non-performance on such obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested/committed under such obligations and there is no assurance that we will have sufficient capital to cover any such losses. We may not be able to acquire suitable investments for a CDO issuance, or we may not be able to issue CDOs on attractive terms, or at all, which may require us to utilize more costly financing for our investments. We have financed, and, if the opportunities exist in the future, we may continue to finance certain of our investments through the issuance of CDOs. During the period that we are acquiring investments for eventual long-term financing through CDOs, we intend to finance these investments through repurchase and credit agreements. We use these agreements to finance our acquisition of investments until we have accumulated a sufficient quantity of investments, at which time we may refinance them through a securitization, such as a CDO issuance. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire a sufficient amount of eligible investments to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. In addition, conditions in the debt capital markets may make the issuance of CDOs less attractive to us even when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral, or we may not be able to execute a CDO transaction due to substantial curtailment in demand for commercial real estate CDOs, such as currently exists. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these investments, we may be required to utilize other forms of potentially less attractive financing. We may not be able to find suitable replacement investments for CDOs with reinvestment periods. Some of our CDOs have periods where principal proceeds received from assets securing the CDO can be reinvested for a defined period of time, commonly referred to as a reinvestment period. Our ability to find suitable 23 Table of Contents investments during the reinvestment period that meet the criteria set forth in the CDO documentation and by rating agencies may determine the success of our CDO investments. Our potential inability to find suitable investments may cause, among other things, lower returns, interest deficiencies, hyper-amortization of the senior CDO liabilities and may cause us to reduce the life of our CDOs and accelerate the amortization of certain fees and expenses. The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization and interest coverage requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. The terms of CDOs will generally provide that the principal amount of investments must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount and that interest income exceeds interest expense by a certain amount. Generally, CDO terms provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses or other factors cause a decline in collateral or cash flow levels, the cash flow otherwise payable on subordinated classes may be redirected to repay senior classes of CDOs until the issuer or the collateral is in compliance with the terms of the governing documents. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure CDOs. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. If our investments fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization, interest coverage or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDO financings will increase. With respect to future CDOs we may issue, we cannot assure you, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties as to the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization and interest coverage terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors upon which net income to us will be calculated. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may adversely affect the availability of net income to us. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold or to indemnify holders of our CDOs. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize through CDOs do not comply with representations and warranties we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our loans and investments may be subject to fluctuations in interest rates which may not be adequately protected, or protected at all, by our hedging strategies. Our current balance sheet investment program emphasizes loans with both “floating” interest rates and fixed interest rates. Floating rate investments earn interest at rates that adjust from time to time (typically monthly) based upon an index (typically LIBOR), allowing this portion of our portfolio to be insulated from changes in value due specifically to changes in rates. Fixed interest rate investments, however, do not have adjusting interest rates and, as prevailing interest rates change, the relative value of the fixed cash flows from these investments will cause potentially significant changes in value. Depending on market conditions, fixed rate assets may become a greater portion of our new loan originations. We may employ various hedging strategies to limit the effects of changes in interest rates (and in some cases credit spreads), including engaging in interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate derivative products. No strategy can completely insulate us from the risks associated with interest rate changes and there is a risk that they may provide no protection at all and potentially compound the impact of changes in interest rates. Hedging transactions involve certain additional risks such as counterparty risk, the legal enforceability of hedging contracts, the early repayment of hedged transactions and the risk that unanticipated and significant changes in interest rates may cause a significant loss of basis in the contract and a change in current period expense. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to enter into hedging transactions or that such hedging transactions will adequately protect us against the foregoing risks. In addition, cash flow hedges which are not perfectly correlated (and appropriately designated and documented as such) with a variable rate financing will impact our reported income as gains, and losses on the ineffective portion of such hedges will be recorded. 24 Table of Contents Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument lengthens and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We may enter into derivative contracts that could expose us to contingent liabilities in the future. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, part of our investment strategy involves entering into derivative contracts that could require us to fund cash payments in the future under certain circumstances (e.g., the early termination of the derivative agreement caused by an event of default or other early termination event, or the decision by a counterparty to request margin securities it is contractually owed under the terms of the derivative contract). The amount due would be equal to the unrealized loss of the open swap positions with the respective counterparty and could also include other fees and charges. These economic losses will be reflected in our financial results of operations, and our ability to fund these obligations will depend on the liquidity of our assets and access to capital at the time, and the need to fund these obligations could adversely impact our financial condition. Changes in values of our derivative contracts could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Certain of our derivative contracts, which are designed to hedge interest rate risk associated with a portion of our loans and investments, could require the funding of additional cash collateral for changes in the market value of these contracts. Due to the continued volatility in the financial markets, the value of these contracts has declined substantially. As a result, as of December 31, 2009, we funded approximately $18.9 million in cash related to these contracts. If we continue to experience significant changes in the outlook of interest rates, these contracts could continue to decline in value, which would require additional cash to be funded. However, at maturity the value of these contracts return to par and all cash will be recovered. We may not have available cash to meet these requirements, which could result in the early termination of these derivatives, leaving us exposed to interest rate risk associated with these loans and investments, which could adversely impact our financial condition. We are subject to certain counterparty risks related to our derivative contracts. We periodically hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by entering into derivative financial instrument contracts. As a result of the global credit crisis, there is a risk that counterparties could fail, shut down, file for bankruptcy or be unable to pay out contracts. The failure of a counterparty that holds collateral that we post in connection with certain interest rate swap agreements could result in the loss of such collateral. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate and Ownership Structure We are substantially controlled by ACM and Mr. Kaufman. Mr. Ivan Kaufman, our chairman, chief executive officer and president and the chief executive officer of ACM, beneficially owns approximately 92% of the outstanding membership interests of ACM. ACM currently has 21.2% of the voting power of our outstanding stock. As a result of Mr. Kaufman’s beneficial ownership of stock held by ACM as well as his beneficial ownership of additional shares of our common stock, Mr. Kaufman currently has 21.7% of the voting power of our outstanding stock. Because of his position with us and our manager and his ability to effectively vote a substantial minority of our outstanding stock, Mr. Kaufman has significant influence over our policies and strategy. Our charter as amended generally does not permit ownership in excess of 7.0% of our capital stock, and attempts to acquire our capital stock in excess of this limit are ineffective without prior approval from our board of directors. For the purpose of preserving our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 7.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or 7.0% (by value) of our outstanding shares of capital stock. For purposes of this calculation, warrants held by such person will be deemed to have been exercised if such exercise would result in a violation. Our charter’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than these percentages of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of these percentages of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to our charter’s ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the board of directors will result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or otherwise voided. Our staggered board and other provisions of our charter and bylaws may prevent a change in our control. Our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current terms of the Class I, Class II and Class III directors will expire in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Directors of each class are chosen for three year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the stockholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, our charter and bylaws also contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest with Our Manager We are dependent on our manager with whom we have conflicts of interest. We have only 29 employees, including Messrs. Weber, Felletter, Horn, Guziewicz, and are dependent upon our manager to provide services to us that are vital to our operations. ACM, our manager currently has approximately 21.2% of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our capital stock and Mr. Kaufman, our chairman and chief executive officer and the chief executive officer of ACM, beneficially owns these shares. Mr. Martello, one of our directors, is the chief operating officer of Arbor Management, LLC (the managing member of ACM) and a trustee of two trusts which own minority membership interests in ACM. Mr. Elenio, our chief financial officer and treasurer, is the chief financial officer of ACM. Each of Messrs. Kaufman, Martello, Elenio, Horn, Weber, Kilgore, Felletter are members of ACM’s executive committee and own minority membership interests in ACM. We may enter into transactions with ACM outside the terms of the management agreement with the approval of a majority vote of the independent members of our board of directors. Transactions required to be approved by a majority of our independent directors include, but are not limited to, our ability to purchase securities, mortgages and other assets from ACM or to sell securities and assets to ACM. ACM may from time to time provide permanent mortgage loan financing to clients of ours, which will be used to refinance bridge financing provided by us. We and ACM may also make loans to the same borrower or to borrowers that are under common control. Additionally, our policies and those of ACM may require us to enter into intercreditor agreements in situations where loans are made by us and ACM to the same borrower. We have entered into a management agreement with our manager under which our manager provides us with all of the services vital to our operations other than asset management services. Certain matters relating to our organization were not approved at arm’s length and the terms of the contribution of assets to us may not be as favorable to us as if the contribution was with an unaffiliated third party. The results of our operations are dependent upon the availability of, and our manager’s ability to identify and capitalize on, investment opportunities. Our manager’s officers and employees are also responsible for providing the same services for ACM’s portfolio of investments. As a result, they may not be able to devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations. Our directors have approved very broad investment guidelines for our manager and do not approve each investment decision made by our manager. Our manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. Our directors will periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio. However, our board does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors rely primarily on information provided to them by our manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Our manager has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. Our manager has broad discretion to invest funds and may acquire structured finance assets where the investment returns are substantially below expectations or that result in net operating losses. Our manager has broad discretion, within the general investment criteria established by our board of directors, to allocate the proceeds of the concurrent offerings and to determine the timing of investment of such proceeds. Such discretion could result in allocation of proceeds to assets where the investment returns are substantially below expectations or that result in net operating losses, which would materially and adversely affect our business, operations and results. The management compensation structure that we have agreed to with our manager may cause our manager to invest in high risk investments. Our manager is entitled to a base management fee, which is based on an agreed upon budget which represents the actual cost of managing the assets. Our manager is also entitled to receive incentive compensation based in part upon our achievement of targeted levels of funds from operations. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on funds from operations may lead our manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of funds from operations at the 27 Table of Contents expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our invested portfolio. Risk Related to Our Status as a REIT If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and could face substantial tax liability. We conduct our operations to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third parties over which we have no control or only limited influence, including in cases where we own an equity interest in an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Furthermore, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then: • we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means we would be unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders; and • unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and thus, our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations. The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. Certain of our securitizations have resulted in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. So long as 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool are owned by an entity that qualifies as a REIT, including our subsidiary Arbor Realty SR, Inc., we would generally not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other tax benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent 28 Table of Contents that our stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we could incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. Moreover, we could be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities generally cannot comprise more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities, or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities, of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than assets which qualify for purposes of the 75% asset test) may consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Liquidation of collateral may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenue from operations to pay our operating expenses and to pay dividends to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income each year to our stockholders, though under the terms of certain financing agreements, annual dividends are limited to 100% of taxable income to common shareholders and are required to be paid in the form of our stock to the maximum extent permissible (currently 90%), with the balance payable in cash. In order to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to REITs, we intend to declare quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income each year, subject to certain adjustments. However, our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report. In the event of a downturn in our operating results and financial performance or unanticipated declines in the value of our asset portfolio, we may be unable to declare or pay quarterly dividends or make distributions to our stockholders. The timing and amount of dividends are in the sole discretion of our board of directors, which considers, among other factors, our earnings, financial condition, debt service obligations and applicable debt covenants, REIT qualification requirements and other tax considerations and capital expenditure requirements as our board may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could adversely affect our results of operations and impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders are: • our ability to make profitable structured finance investments; • defaults in our asset portfolio or decreases in the value of our portfolio; 29 Table of Contents • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates; and • increased debt service requirements, including those resulting from higher interest rates on variable rate indebtedness. A change in any one of these factors could affect our ability to make distributions. If we are not able to comply with the restrictive covenants and financial ratios contained in our credit facilities, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may also be impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make distributions to our stockholders in the future or that the level of any distributions we make will increase over time. We may need to borrow funds under our credit facilities in order to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements, and a portion of our distributions may constitute a return of capital. Debt service on any borrowings for this purpose will reduce our cash available for distribution. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must generally, among other requirements, distribute at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, to our stockholders each year, though under the terms of certain financing agreements, annual dividends are limited to 100% of taxable income to common shareholders and are required to be paid in the form of our stock to the maximum extent permissible (currently 90%), with the balance payable in cash. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds, issue stock or sell investments and our equity securities at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds to make distributions sufficient to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may change. Any such changes may have retroactive effect, and could adversely affect us or our stockholders. Legislation enacted in 2003 and extended in 2006 generally reduced the federal income tax rate on most dividends paid by corporations to individual investors to a maximum of 15% (through 2010). REIT dividends, with limited exceptions, will not benefit from the rate reduction, because a REIT’s income generally is not subject to corporate level tax. As such, this legislation could cause shares in non-REIT corporations to be a more attractive investment to individual investors than shares in REITs, and could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Restrictions on share accumulation in REITs could discourage a change of control of us. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of a taxable year. In order to prevent five or fewer individuals from acquiring more than 50% of our outstanding shares and a resulting failure to qualify as a REIT, our charter provides that, subject to certain exceptions, no person, including entities, may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, more than 7.0% of the aggregate value or number of shares (whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock, or more than 7.0%, by value, of our outstanding shares of capital stock of all classes, in the aggregate. For purposes of the ownership limitations, warrants held by a person will be deemed to have been exercised if such exercise would result in a violation of the charter provisions. Shares of our stock that would otherwise be directly or indirectly acquired or held by a person in violation of the ownership limitations are, in general, automatically transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable 30 Table of Contents beneficiary, and the purported owner’s interest in such shares is void. In addition, any person who acquires shares in excess of these limits is obliged to immediately give written notice to us and provide us with any information we may request in order to determine the effect of the acquisition on our status as a REIT. While these restrictions are designed to prevent any five individuals from owning more than 50% of our shares, they could also discourage a change in control of our company. These restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to stockholders or limit the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of shares to acquire a block of shares. Moreover, the current level of the ownership limit that applies to our stockholders, generally 7.0%, is such that in conjunction with the exemptions described above that were granted to Mssrs. Kaufman and Kojaian, if individuals were to acquire stock in the maximum amounts thereby permitted, our ability to qualify as a REIT could be jeopardized. We believe that the actual ownership of our stock has complied with the REIT qualification requirements, and we expect to be able to maintain such compliance in the future. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future ownership of our stock will be such that we will be able to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Under current law, income that we generate from derivatives or other transactions intended to hedge various risks may be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of the REIT income tests, unless certain requirements are met, and our position in such a hedging or derivative transaction, to the extent that it has positive value, may be treated as a non-qualifying asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 