ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If any of the following events actually occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and our business could suffer. Our success depends substantially on the skills and abilities of our senior management team, including Mr. Cornelsen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Burnett, our Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer, and Ms. Rush, our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Credit Officer. They provide valuable services to us and would be difficult to replace. Although we have entered into employment agreements with these executives, the existence of such agreements does not assure that we will retain their services. Also, our growth and success and our anticipated future growth and success, in a large part, is due and we anticipate will be due to the relationships maintained by our banking executives with our customers. The loss of services of one or more of these executives or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our business could suffer. The experienced commercial lenders that we have hired are not a party to any employment agreement with us and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to open new branches, attract new deposits, identify loan and investment opportunities and maintain adequate capital levels. We may also grow through acquisitions of existing financial institutions or branches thereof. There are no guarantees that our expansion strategies will be successful. Also, in order to effectively manage our anticipated and/or actual loan growth we may need to make additional investments in equipment and personnel, which would also increase our non-interest expense. 18 We plan to open a new branch in Annapolis in Anne Arundel County, Maryland during the second or third quarter of 2008. We also expect to open a new branch in Crofton in Anne Arundel County, Maryland during 2008 or 2009. Additionally, we intend to open a branch in Bowie in Prince George’s County in 2008 or 2009. With respect to these branches or any other branches that we may open, we may not be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets for such new branches. If we were to acquire another financial institution or branch thereof, we may not be able to integrate the institution or branch into our operations. Also, the costs to start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing financial institutions or branches thereof, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, will increase our non-interest expense. It may also be difficult to adequately and profitably manage the anticipated growth from the new branches or acquisitions and we may not be able to maintain the relatively low levels of charge-offs and nonperforming loans that we have experienced. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our focus on commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses. We offer a variety of loans including commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, home equity loans and consumer loans, which includes luxury boat financing. We secure many of our loans with real estate (both residential and commercial) in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C. While we believe our credit underwriting adequately considers the underlying collateral in the evaluation process, and although the recent real estate downturn has not adversely impacted us, further weakness in the real estate market could adversely effect our customers, which in turn could adversely impact us. Our concentrations of loans in various categories may also increase the risk of credit losses. We currently invest more than 25% of our capital in various loan types and industry segments, including commercial real estate loans, marine loans and loans to the hospitality industry (hotels/motels). While recent declines in the local commercial real estate market have not had any adverse impact on the collateral securing our loans, a further deterioration in the commercial real estate market could cause deterioration in the collateral securing these loans and/or a decline in our customers’ earning capacity. This could negatively impact us. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Management, through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict such losses or be sure that our allowance will be adequate in the future. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, our earnings will suffer. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy, and geo-political stability, are not predictable or controllable. Additionally, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super-regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. We seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings are more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature and re-price in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether we are more asset sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining this neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer. 19 The market value of our investments could negatively impact stockholders’ equity. We have designated approximately 80.32% of our securities investment portfolio (and 3.83% of total assets) at December 31, 2007 as available for sale pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115 relating to accounting for investments. SFAS 115 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available for sale portfolio be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in stockholders’ equity, net of tax. As of December 31, 2007, we had unrealized losses in our available for sale portfolio of $49,127 ($29,749 net of taxes). If the market value of the available for sale investment portfolio declines further, this will cause a corresponding decline in stockholders’ equity. Because Old Line Bank serves a limited market area in Maryland, an economic downturn in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our current primary market area consists of the suburban Maryland (Washington, D.C. suburbs) counties of Prince George’s, Anne Arundel, Charles and northern St. Mary’s. We are expanding in Prince George’s County and Anne Arundel County, Maryland and may expand in contiguous northern and western counties, such as Montgomery County and Howard County, Maryland. However, broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. As a result, if our market area continues to suffer an economic downturn, it may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects larger bank competitors. Our larger competitors serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market area. Old Line Bank faces substantial competition which could adversely affect our growth and operating results. Old Line Bank operates in a competitive market for financial services and faces intense competition from other financial institutions both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Many of these financial institutions have been in business for many years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases, have greater financial resources and lending limits than Old Line Bank, and are able to offer certain services that we are not able to offer. If Old Line Bank cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, its operating results will suffer, as will its opportunities for growth. We face limits on our ability to lend. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2007, we were able to lend approximately $4.9 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We generally try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. Our need to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and our growth strategy. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Old Line Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. Although Congress in recent years has sought to reduce the regulatory burden on financial institutions with respect to the approval of specific transactions, we fully expect that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices. 20 Our stock benefit plans will increase our expenses, which may reduce our profitability. Pursuant to our compensation plans, we expect to grant additional stock options. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, which we implemented in January 2006. SFAS No. 123R eliminates the ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and requires such transactions be accounted for using a fair-value-based method and the resulting cost to be recognized in the financial statements over the option vesting periods. Recording compensation expense in our statement of income for stock options using the fair value method has in 2006 and 2007 and could continue to have a significant negative effect on our reported financial results, particularly if we grant a significant number of options in future periods. The costs of being a public company are proportionately higher for small companies like us due to the requirement of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by Securities and Exchange Commission have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. These regulations are applicable to our company. We expect to experience increasing compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These necessary costs are proportionately higher for a company of our size and will affect our profitability more than that of some of our larger competitors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable as we are not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. 