Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. Each of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risks may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which may cause you to lose all or a part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Our auditors have issued a “going concern” audit opinion. Our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2011, have been prepared on the assumption that we will continue as a going concern. Our independent accountants have issued a report dated October 20, 2011, stating that our significant losses from operations and net capital deficiency raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern. If we file for bankruptcy protection, holders of our common stock and preferred stock may be severely diluted or eliminated entirely in connection with a bankruptcy filing or restructuring transaction. If we are unable to successfully execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant additional capital, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our obligations as they become due and to continue as a going concern. As a result, we will likely file for bankruptcy or seek similar protection. Moreover, it is possible that our creditors may seek to initiate involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against us or against one or more of our subsidiaries, which would force us to make defensive voluntary filing(s) of our own. In addition, if we restructure our debt or file for bankruptcy protection, it is very likely that our common stock and preferred stock will be severely diluted if not eliminated entirely. We have no borrowing capacity under our credit agreements, and unless we are able to successfully execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant capital, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our obligations as they become due and to continue as a going concern. We have sustained recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations. Over the periods presented in the accompanying financial statements, our growth has been funded through a combination of equity financings, borrowings under our credit agreements, the sale of assets and cash flows from operating activities. As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately $1.7 million of cash and cash equivalents available to fund operations and essentially no additional funds available for operations. On July 20, 2010, we terminated our announced merger with Resaca that had been initiated pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated September 29, 2009. On July 26, 2010, we announced the engagement of Canaccord Genuity and Global Hunter Securities to assist our Board in a review of strategic alternatives, with a goal of maximizing economic value for our shareholders. The strategic alternatives we are considering include the sale of the Company, the sale of some or all of our existing oil and gas properties and assets, potential business combinations, and debt restructuring, including possible bankruptcy and recapitalizing the Company. We currently have limited access to capital. On August 5, 2010, we finalized Consent and Forbearance Agreements with the lenders under our credit agreements that waived covenant compliance issues for the period ended June 30, 2010,and potential covenant compliance issues for the period ending September 30, 2010, set certain deadlines for the execution of our strategic alternatives process and allowed us to sell certain natural gas commodity derivative contracts for cash proceeds of $0.8 million, which was intended to provide Cano sufficient liquidity to complete our strategic alternatives process. The Consent and Forbearance Agreements were terminated as our lenders delivered Reservation of Rights Letters dated September 24, 2010, January 5, 2011, and September 23, 2011. On August 31, 2011, we failed to make a required payment of interest under our senior credit agreement. Our failure to make such payment of interest constituted an Event of Default under our senior and subordinated credit agreements, for which the lenders under such credit agreements may terminate their obligation to extend credit to us and declare all amounts payable under our senior and subordinated credit agreements due and payable in full. We have not received any 12 Table of Contents notice from the lenders with respect to the exercise of their respective rights, including any right to accelerate the amounts payable by us. We continue to work with our lenders and advisors as we consider strategic alternatives. We currently have no available borrowing capacity under our senior and subordinated credit agreements. The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. As a result of losses incurred and our current negative working capital, there is no assurance that the carrying amounts of assets will be realized or that liabilities will be settled for the amounts recorded. The ability of the Company to continue as a going concern will be dependent upon the outcome of the strategic alternatives review. Unless we are able to successfully execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant additional capital, it is unlikely that we will be able to meet our obligations as they become due and to continue as a going concern. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to execute one of our strategic alternatives, restructure our existing indebtedness, obtain further waivers or forbearance from our existing lenders or otherwise raise significant additional capital. We are unable to redeem, and do not expect in the foreseeable future to be able to redeem, our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. Pursuant to the terms of our Series D Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”), we were required to redeem all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock as of September 6, 2011, its maturity date. However, the subordination provisions of our Preferred Stock prohibit us from redeeming our Preferred Stock while we are in default under our senior credit agreement. As a result of our defaults under our senior and subordinated credit agreements, we were not able to redeem our outstanding Preferred Stock as of its maturity date. Without successfully implementing one of our strategic alternatives or restructuring our existing indebtedness, we do not expect to be able to cure our defaults under our senior and subordinated credit agreements any time in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we do not expect to be able to redeem our outstanding Preferred Stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, we cannot issue any preferred stock that is senior or on par with the Preferred Stock with regard to dividends or liquidation without the approval of holders of a majority of the Preferred Stock. We are subject to many restrictions imposed by our lenders under our credit agreements which may adversely impact our future operations. We currently have limited access to capital. On August 5, 2010, we finalized Consent and Forbearance Agreements with the lenders under our credit agreements that waived potential covenant compliance issues for the periods ending June 30, 2010,and September 30, 2010, set certain deadlines for the execution of our strategic alternatives process and allowed us to sell certain natural gas commodity derivative contracts for cash proceeds of $0.8 million, which was intended to provide Cano sufficient liquidity to complete its strategic alternatives process. The Consent and Forbearance Agreements were terminated as our lenders delivered Reservation of Rights Letters dated September 24, 2010, January 5, 2011, and September 23, 2011. On August 31, 2011, we failed to make a required payment of interest under our senior credit agreement. Our failure to make such payment of interest constituted an Event of Default under our senior and subordinated credit agreements, for which the lenders under such credit agreements may terminate their obligation to extend credit to us and declare all amounts payable under our senior and subordinated credit agreements due and payable in full. We have not received any notice from the lenders with respect to the exercise of their respective rights, including any right to accelerate the amounts payable by us. We currently have no available borrowing capacity under our senior and subordinated credit agreements. Our lenders have terminated each of the Consent and Forbearance Agreements with respect to our credit agreements, and we have no guarantee that they will not declare the amounts owed under our credit agreements immediately payable and exercise any other available rights and remedies. On September 24, 2010, the lenders under our credit agreements notified us, through the delivery of Reservation of Rights Letters, subsequently updated on January 5, 2011, and September 23, 2011, that we had failed to timely comply with certain covenants in the Consent and Forbearance Agreements dated August 5, 2010, with such parties, and, as a result thereof, such Consent and Forbearance Agreements were terminated. We have not received any notice from the lenders with respect to the exercise of their respective rights, including any right to accelerate the amounts payable by us. On August 31, 2011, we failed to make a required payment of interest under the amended and restated credit agreement (“ARCA”). Our failure to make such payment of interest 13 Table of Contents constituted an Event of Default under the ARCA and the subordinated credit agreement (“SCA”), for which the lenders under such credit agreements may terminate their obligation to extend credit to us and declare all amounts payable under the ARCA and the SCA due and payable in full. We have not received any notice from the lenders with respect to the exercise of their respective rights, including any right to accelerate the amounts payable by us. However, if our lenders declare the amounts owed under our credit agreements immediately due and payable, we are unsure of our ability to continue as a going concern. We have not obtained any further waiver or forbearance from the lenders with respect to our credit agreements, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain any waiver or forbearance in the future. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital when needed, we will not be able to continue with our historical business strategy. Our business strategy has historically included developing and acquiring interests in mature oil fields with established primary and/or secondary reserves that may possess significant remaining upside exploitation potential by implementing various secondary and/or tertiary EOR techniques. If we are able to continue our historical business plan, we will require additional capital to finance acquisitions as well as to conduct our EOR operations. Due to our current liquidity constraints, it is unlikely that we will make any acquisitions of oil and gas properties and related assets or entities owning such assets for the foreseeable future. Additionally, in the future, we may not be able to obtain financing in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms when needed, which could adversely affect our operating results and prospects. If we cannot raise the capital required to implement our historical business strategy, we may be required to curtail operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, any debt financing must be repaid and redeemable preferred stock must be redeemed regardless of whether or not we generate profits or cash flows from our business activities. Our operations could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain required bonds. Federal and state laws require bonds or cash deposits to secure our obligations with respect to various parts of our operations. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including: our failure to comply with rules and regulations of Federal and state governmental agencies, including the United States Bureau of Land Management, the lack of availability of bonding, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; and the exercise by third-party bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the bonds. If we fail to maintain required bonds, our production may significantly decrease, which would significantly decrease our already constrained cash flow. The actual quantities and present value of our proved reserves may be lower than we have estimated. This annual report contains estimates of our proved reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from these estimates and vary over time. Such variations may be significant and could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of our proved reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of drilling, results of secondary and tertiary recovery applications, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We have no proved undeveloped reserves and, for the foreseeable future, we will not be able to develop any of our properties. We do not have any reportable estimated proved undeveloped or estimated proved developed nonproducing reserves with respect to any of our properties, because we have no reasonable expectation of financing the development of our properties. We have no borrowing capacity under our credit agreements. Unless we are able to successfully raise significant additional capital, we will not be able to further develop any of our properties. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to raise significant additional capital. We may not achieve the production growth we anticipate from our properties or properties we acquire. Our operational strategy has historically been to implement waterflood and EOR techniques upon our existing properties. The performance of waterflood and EOR techniques is often difficult to predict and takes an extended period of time from first investment until actual production. Additionally, we may not achieve the anticipated production growth from properties we own or acquire in the future. 14 Table of Contents Acquisitions may prove to be worth less than we paid because of uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and potential liabilities. Our historical growth has been due in part to acquisitions of exploration and production companies, producing properties and undeveloped leaseholds. Successful acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors, including estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, recovery applicability from waterflood and EOR techniques, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and their accuracy is inherently uncertain. In connection with our assessments, we perform reviews of acquired properties which we believe are generally consistent with industry practices. However, such reviews will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, these reviews may not permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. Additionally, we do not inspect every well or property. Even when we inspect a well or property, we do not always discover structural, subsurface and environmental problems that may exist or arise. We are generally not entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Normally, we acquire interests in properties on an “as is” basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to acquire oil and natural gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves or recover oil from the properties we have acquired. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties, which may have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or be in different geographic locations than our existing properties. It has been our historical intention to focus on acquiring properties located in onshore United States. To the extent that we acquire properties substantially different from the properties in our primary operating regions or acquire properties that require different technical expertise, we may not be able to realize the economic benefits of these acquisitions Exploration and development drilling and the application of waterflooding and EOR techniques may not result in commercially productive reserves. The new wells we drill or participate in, whether undertaken in primary drilling or utilizing waterflood or EOR techniques may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment. The engineering data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively, prior to beginning a project, that crude oil or natural gas is present in the reservoir or that those reserves can be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to generate an economic return. Further, our drilling and other operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including but not limited to: · unexpected drilling conditions; · title and permitting problems; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices; · adverse weather conditions; and · increases in the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, chemicals, drilling rigs and equipment. Certain of our current development and exploration (waterflood or EOR techniques where no proved waterflood or EOR reserves have previously been recorded) activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, this failure could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. While all crude oil and natural gas activities, whether developmental or exploratory, involve these risks, exploratory activities involve greater risks of failure to find and produce commercial quantities of crude oil or natural gas. Our board of directors and management team have recently changed, and our failure to successfully adapt to these changes, a failure by our new management team to successfully manage our operations, or our inability to fill vacant key management positions may adversely affect our business. We have experienced several recent departures at our board of directors and executive levels, including the departure of five directors, our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and our General Counsel. Our future success is dependent on the personal efforts, performance and abilities of key management, including James R. Latimer, III, 15 Table of Contents our new Chief Executive Officer and member of our board of directors, and John H. Homier, our new Chief Financial Officer. Each of these individuals are integral parts of our daily operations. We do not maintain any key life insurance policies for any of our executive officers or other personnel. The further loss of any of our current officers could significantly impact our business until adequate replacements can be identified and put in place. As a result of our strategic alternatives process, we are operating with a reduced work force which may affect our ability to run our business. Additionally, we may not be able to hire qualified replacements for lost employees in the future. We face strong competition from larger oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors include large integrated oil and natural gas companies and numerous independent oil and natural gas companies, individuals and drilling and income programs. Many of these competitors are well-established companies with substantially larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than we have. These larger competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, such companies may be able to expend greater resources on the existing and changing technologies that we believe are, and will be, increasingly important to attaining success in the industry. The geographic concentration of our oil and gas reserves may have a greater effect on our ability to sell oil and gas compared to larger, more geographically diverse companies and may make us more sensitive to price volatility. All of our oil and gas reserves are located in Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma. Since our reserves are not as diversified geographically as many of our larger, more geographically diverse competitors, our business could be more subject to local conditions than other, more diversified companies. Any regional events, including price fluctuations, natural disasters, oil and gas processing or transportation interruptions, and restrictive regulations, that increase costs, reduce availability of equipment or supplies, reduce demand or limit our production may impact our operations more than if our reserves were more geographically diversified. For example, if Cushing, OK, a major crude oil trading hub in North America, experienced a shortage in capacity, then our crude oil price might be adversely affected. In 2011, this actually occurred, and the crude oil price at Cushing lost parity with other world benchmark prices. Our business will depend on gathering and transportation facilities owned by others. Any limitation in the availability of those facilities would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas that we produce. The marketability of our crude oil and natural gas production will depend in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering and pipeline systems owned by third parties. The amount of crude oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to curtailment in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. In many cases, we are provided only with limited, if any, notice as to when these circumstances will arise and their duration. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary gathering and transportation facilities, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our ability to use net operating loss carryovers to offset future taxable income may be limited. Depending on the outcome of our strategic alternatives review as discussed in Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, our federal income tax net operating loss (“NOL”) carry-forwards could be subject to the ownership change limitation provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. This will result in a limitation on the use of NOL carry-forwards to a specified amount per year. The Company may not able to fully utilize these existing NOL carry-forwards in future years and there can be no certainty that any of our NOL carry-forwards will be utilized by us in the future. Derivative activities create a risk of potentially limiting the ability to realize profits when prices increase. From time to time, we may maintain commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of a decline in crude oil and natural gas prices. Such commodity derivative contracts could prevent us from realizing the full advantage of increases in crude oil or natural gas prices if the NYMEX crude oil and natural gas prices exceed the contract price ceiling. In addition, these transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss if the counterparties to our derivative contracts fail to perform under the contracts. Also, increases in crude oil and natural gas prices would negatively affect the fair value of commodity 16 Table of Contents derivatives contracts that we would be required to record on our balance sheet and, consequently, our reported net income. Changes in the recorded fair value of our derivatives contracts would be marked to market through earnings and the decrease in the fair value of these contracts during any period could result in significant charges to earnings. We are currently unable to estimate the effects on earnings in future periods, but the effects could be significant We reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, we may be in violation of our lending covenants, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could decrease as a result. During our evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for the year ended June 30, 2010 and based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective because of the material weaknesses described below. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in there being a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our independent registered public accounting firm advised our audit committee that the following material weaknesses in internal control existed as of June 30, 2011: · Our review of our valuation of commodity derivatives did not detect errors in the unrealized loss on commodity derivatives that resulted in a material audit adjustment to our financial statements. · Our review of certain other computations did not detect errors in such calculations that resulted in adjustments to our financial statements that were less than material, but important enough to merit attention by those responsible for our financial reporting oversight. The aggregate effect of this deficiency when combined with the material weakness described above constitutes a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. · We were unable to complete our internal control procedures over financial reporting in a sufficient amount of time to allow us to include our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report and file it within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC. In our judgment, the material weaknesses listed above resulted from significant turnover of our accounting and finance personnel that left us with new accounting and finance personnel who lacked familiarity with our accounting systems, methods and policies. Until they are fully remediated, these material weaknesses could lead to errors in our reported financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our securities. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in remediating any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Further, we cannot assure you that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies and material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our business involves many operating risks, which may result in substantial losses, and insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect us against these risks. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for, producing and transporting oil and natural gas, such as: · fires; · natural disasters; · explosions; · pressure forcing oil or natural gas out of the wellbore at a dangerous velocity coupled with the potential for fire or explosion; · weather; · failure of oilfield drilling and service tools; · changes in underground pressure in a formation that causes the surface to collapse or crater; · pipeline ruptures or cement failures; 17 Table of Contents · environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases; and · availability of needed equipment at acceptable prices, including steel tubular products. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from: · injury or loss of life; · damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution and other environmental damage; · regulatory investigations and penalties; · suspension of our operations; and · repair and remediation costs. Part of our business is seasonal in nature, which may affect the price of our oil and natural gas sales, and severe weather may adversely affect our ability to deliver oil and natural gas production. Weather conditions affect the demand for and price of oil and natural gas. Demand for oil and natural gas is typically higher during winter months than summer months. However, warm winters can also lead to downward price trends. Therefore, our results of operations may be adversely affected by seasonal conditions. Severe weather can cause interruptions to our production and temporarily shut-in production from our wells. Unfavorable results of litigation could have a material adverse impact on our financial statements. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Management currently believes that resolving any of such matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or results of operations. The litigation and claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our financial position and the results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Please see “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion of our material pending legal proceedings. Currently, our lease operating expense per BOE is high in comparison to the oil and natural gas industry as a whole. Until we achieve significant production growth from our waterfloods, our lease operating expense per BOE should remain higher than companies drilling for primary production. These higher operating costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Crude oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial or sustained decline in prices could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows and access to capital. Our revenues and operating results depend primarily upon the prices we receive for the crude oil and natural gas we produce and sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for crude oil and natural gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. The prices we receive for our crude oil and natural gas are based upon factors that are beyond our control, including: · worldwide and domestic demands and supplies of oil and natural gas; · weather conditions; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; 18 Table of Contents · the availability of pipeline capacity; · the price and level of foreign imports; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions; and · the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future crude oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in crude oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reserves. Government regulation may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to various and numerous federal, state and local government regulations, which may be changed from time to time. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, spacing of wells, injection of substances, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. Certain federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to the development, production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas, by-products thereof and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations, exist for the purpose of protecting the human health and the environment. The transportation and storage of refined products include the risk that refined products and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies and private parties for natural resources damages, personal injury, or property damages and significant business interruption. We own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined and unrefined products for many years. Many of these properties have also been operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control. As a result, we may incur substantial expenditures and/or liabilities to third parties or governmental entities which could have a material adverse effect on us. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive, and we will likely be unable to raise the capital needed to conduct our operations as planned or to make strategic acquisitions. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition of, exploration for and development of, crude oil and natural gas reserves. Due to our current liquidity constraints, it is unlikely that we will make any acquisitions of oil and gas properties and related assets or entities owning such assets for the foreseeable future. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures with cash generated by operations, proceeds from bank borrowings and sales of equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: · our proved reserves; · the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. Any one of these variables can materially affect our ability to access the capital markets. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to fund future development projects. We may, from time to time, seek additional financing, either in the form of bank borrowings, public or private sales of debt or 19 Table of Contents equity securities or other forms of financing, or consider selling non-core assets to raise additional operating capital. However, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or sell non-core assets upon terms acceptable to us. Any prolonged, substantial reduction in the demand for oil and gas, or distribution problems in meeting this demand, could adversely affect our business. Our success is materially dependent upon the demand for oil and gas. The availability of a ready market for our oil and gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas, the availability of alternative energy sources, the proximity of reserves to, and the capacity of, oil and gas gathering systems, pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. We may also have to shut-in some of our wells temporarily due to a lack of market or adverse weather conditions. If the demand for oil and gas diminishes, our financial results would be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limitations related to the methods of transportation for our production. Substantially all of our oil and gas production is transported by pipelines and trucks owned by third parties. The inability or unwillingness of these parties to provide transportation services to us for a reasonable fee could result in us having to find transportation alternatives, increased transportation costs or involuntary curtailment of a significant portion of our oil and gas production, any of which could have a negative impact on our results of operation and cash flows. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. The oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of petroleum products and hazardous substances, and historic disposal activities. These environmental hazards could expose us to material liabilities for property damages, personal injuries or other environmental harm, including costs of investigating and remediating contaminated properties. A variety of stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of our business and impose strict requirements for, among other things: · well drilling or workover, operation and abandonment; · waste management; · land reclamation; · financial assurance under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990; and · controlling air, water and waste emissions. Any noncompliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities. Additionally, our compliance with these laws may, from time to time, result in increased costs of production, development or exploration, or decreased production, and may affect our costs of acquisitions. Our liability for environmental hazards includes those created either by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease or by acquired companies prior to the date we acquire them. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. Our insurance policies currently provide for $1,000,000 general liability coverage for bodily injury and property damage including pollution, underground resources, blowout and cratering. We have “an “Owned-Hired and Non-Owned” Commercial Automobile liability limit of $1,000,000. There is a $2,000,000 policy for control of well, re-drill, and pollution on drilling wells and producing wells. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover casualty losses or liabilities. At June 30, 2011, we had $50,000,000 umbrella coverage in excess of the general liability and automobile liability. At the renewal of our policies in August 2011, we reduced the umbrella coverage to $35,000,000, leaving all other coverage unchanged. In the future, we may not be able to obtain insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. We do not insure against the loss of oil or natural gas reserves as a result of operating hazards, insure against business interruption or insure our field production equipment against loss. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. 20 Table of Contents Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2012, or the Budget Proposal, contains a proposal to eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to coal, oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for U.S. production activities and (iv) the increase in the amortization period from two years to seven years for geophysical costs paid or incurred in connection with the exploration for, or development of, oil or gas within the United States. It is unclear whether any such changes will actually be enacted or, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Budget Proposal or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could affect certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and production and could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common stock. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (“GHG”) present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In March 2010, the EPA announced a proposed rulemaking that would expand its final rule on reporting of GHG emissions to include owners and operators of onshore oil and natural gas production facilities. If the proposed rule is finalized in its current form, reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities would be required on an annual basis beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Federal and state governments are considering enacting new legislation and promulgating new regulations governing or restricting the emission of greenhouse gases. The EPA has already made findings and issued proposed regulations that could lead to the imposition of restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and certain stationary sources and that could require us to establish and report an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the U.S. Congress has been considering various bills that would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. Such a program, if enacted, could require phased reductions in greenhouse gas emissions over several or many years as could the issuance of a declining number of tradable allowances to sources that emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Legislative and regulatory proposals for restricting greenhouse gas emissions or otherwise addressing climate change could require us to incur additional operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that we sell. The potential increase in our operating costs could include new or increased costs to obtain permits, operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Derivatives regulation included in current financial reform legislation could impede our ability to manage business and financial risks by restricting our use of derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices. From time to time, we enter into derivatives contracts in order to hedge portions of our natural gas and oil production. The United States Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as ours, that participate in that market. The legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010, and its provisions generally are effective 360 days from the date of enactment, on July 16, 2011. Provisions that require a rulemaking by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC, and/or the SEC will not take effect until at least 60 days after publication of the related final rule. The CFTC and the SEC have not completed all of the rulemaking the Dodd-Frank Act directs them to carry out. The regulators have granted temporary relief from the general effective date for various requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, and also have indicated they may phase in implementation of various requirements of the new rules. In its rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act, the 21 Table of Contents CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivatives activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act, or the FRAC Act, was introduced in, but not passed by, the 111th Congress and reintroduced in the 112th Congress, to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. If adopted, such legislation could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Certain states in which we operate, including Texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. For example, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas, or the RCT, and the public disclosure of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic-fracturing process. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct, operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. There are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic-fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic-fracturing practices. Furthermore, a number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods. Also, the U.S. Department of the Interior is considering disclosure requirements or other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. Additionally, certain members of the Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, the SEC to investigate the natural-gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural-gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural-gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties 22 Table of Contents associated with those estimates. These on-going or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanism. Further, on July 28, 2011, the EPA issued proposed rules that would subject all oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards, or NSPS, and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, or NESHAPS, programs. The EPA proposed rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion, or REC, techniques developed in EPA’s Natural Gas STAR program along with pit flaring of gas not sent to the gathering line. The standards would be applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured. Further, the proposed regulations under NESHAPS include maximum achievable control technology, or MACT, standards for those glycol dehydrators and storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards. We are currently researching the effect these proposed rules could have on our business. Final action on the proposed rules is expected no later than February 28, 2012. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells and increased compliance costs and time, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Failure to obtain a satisfactory result from our strategic alternatives process could adversely affect our common stock price, and our future business and financial results. On July 20, 2010, following our termination of the Agreement and Plan of Merger with Resaca we announced the initiation of a strategic alternatives process designed to achieve the best available economic value for our shareholders. The strategic alternatives we are considering include the sale of the Company, the sale of some or all of our existing oil and gas properties and assets, or potential business combinations. We currently have a severe shortage of working capital and funds to pay our liabilities, and we currently have no available borrowing capacity under our senior or subordinated credit agreements. We were not in compliance with the interest coverage ratio, leverage ratio, and other requirements of our credit agreements. On August 5, 2010, we finalized Forbearance Agreements with our lenders that set certain deadlines for the execution of our strategic alternatives process and allowed us to sell certain natural gas commodity derivative contracts for $0.8 million. The cash proceeds from the sale of the derivative contracts were expected to provide us sufficient liquidity to complete our strategic alternatives process. The Consent and Forbearance Agreements were terminated as our lenders delivered Reservation of Rights Letters dated September 24, 2010, January 5, 2011, and September 23, 2011. On August 31, 2011, we failed to make a required payment of interest under our senior credit agreement. Our failure to make such payment of interest constituted an Event of Default under our senior and subordinated credit agreements, for which the lenders under such credit agreements may terminate their obligation to extend credit to us and declare all amounts payable under our senior and subordinated credit agreements due and payable in full. We have not received any notice from the lenders with respect to the exercise of their respective rights, including any right to accelerate the amounts payable by us. We continue to work with our lenders and advisors as we consider strategic alternatives. Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates continuity of operations, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities in the ordinary course of business. As a result of the losses incurred and current negative working capital, there is no assurance that the carrying amounts of assets will be realized or that liabilities will be liquidated or settled for the amounts recorded. The ability of Cano to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the strategic alternatives process, as previously discussed. There can be no assurance that our strategic alternatives process will adequately resolve issues regarding our liquidity or going concern status. Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock may continue to be volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. On October 19, 2011, our closing price on the NYSE Amex was $0.17. Any future market price for our shares may continue to be very volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often are unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce 23 Table of Contents our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations and volatility, general economic, market and political conditions, as well as our operating and financial performance, could reduce our stock price. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. If we fail to meet continued listing standards of NYSE Amex or fail to adequately address the low selling price of our common stock, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In order for our common stock to be eligible for continued listing on NYSE Amex, we must remain in compliance with certain listing standards. Among other things, these standards require that we remain current in our filings with the SEC and comply with certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We received a notice on November 10, 2010, from the NYSE Amex LLC (the “Exchange”) specifying that we did not meet one of the Exchange’s continued listing standards in that we failed to hold our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders prior to June 30, 2010. On December 9, 2010, we provided to the Exchange our plan to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by May 10, 2011. On January 14, 2011, we received notification from the Exchange indicating that the Exchange has determined that we have made a reasonable demonstration of our ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards and therefore granted us an extension to regain compliance with the applicable listing standard by May 10, 2011. On April 21, 2011, we held our Annual Meeting of Stockholders. On April 25, 2011, we received a letter from the Exchange notifying us that the continued listing deficiency referenced above had been resolved. As a result, the Company has achieved compliance with Section 704 of the AMEX Company Guide, and the Company’s common stock continues to trade on the Exchange. However, we cannot assure you that we will maintain compliance with NYSE Amex’s continued listing requirements in the future. If we were to again become noncompliant with NYSE Amex’s continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted which would have a material adverse affect on the price of our common stock. On October 5, 2011, we received a letter from NYSE Amex informing us that over the 30 trading days immediately preceding the date of such letter, the price of our common stock averaged $0.19 per share, and as of October 4, 2011, it closed at $0.14 per share. The letter constituted notification that the staff of NYSE Regulation’s corporate compliance department deems it appropriate for us to effect a reverse stock split. If we do not adequately address our low selling price, through either a reverse stock split or other action, within a reasonable amount of time after such letter, NYSE Amex may initiate delisting proceedings. If we are delisted from NYSE Amex, our common stock may become subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, which would make transactions in our common stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 3a51-1 which establishes the definition of a “penny stock,” for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange or registered national securities association’s automated quotation system and has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, Rule 15g-9 requires: · that a broker or dealer approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · the broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain financial information and other information regarding the investment experience and objectives of the person; and · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · confirms the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. 24 Table of Contents Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. If securities analysts downgrade our stock or cease coverage of us, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business or us. We do not control the reports these analysts publish about us. Furthermore, there are many large, well-established, publicly-traded companies active in our industry and market, which may make it less likely that we will receive widespread analyst coverage. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgraded our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and do not intend to pay cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Net income from our operations, if any, will be used for the development of our business, including capital expenditures, and to retire debt. Any decisions to pay dividends on the common stock in the future will depend upon our profitability at the time, available cash and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the terms of our credit agreements and our Preferred Stock. Provisions in our corporate governance and loan documents, the terms of our Preferred Stock and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Cano, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, our Preferred Stock, our bylaws, our credit agreements and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage other persons from initiating a tender offer or takeover attempt that a stockholder might consider to be in the best interest of all stockholders, including takeover attempts that might result in a premium to be paid over the market price of our stock. The terms of our Preferred Stock give its holders the right to have their Preferred Stock redeemed upon a “change of control.” In addition, the terms of our Preferred Stock do not permit us to enter into certain transactions that would constitute a “change of control” unless the successor entity assumes all of our obligations relating to the Preferred Stock and the holders of a majority of our Preferred Stock approve such assumption and the successor entity is publicly-traded on the NYSE Amex, the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market. In addition, subject to the terms of the Preferred Stock, we are authorized to issue additional shares of preferred stock. Subject to the terms of the Preferred Stock and our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors has total discretion in the issuance and the determination of the rights and privileges of any shares of preferred stock that might be issued in the future, which rights and privileges may be detrimental to the holders of the common stock. It is not possible to state the actual effect of the authorization and issuance of a new series of preferred stock upon the rights of holders of the common stock and other series of preferred stock unless and until the board of directors determines the attributes of any new series of preferred stock and the specific rights of its holders. These effects might include: · restrictions on dividends on common stock and other series of preferred stock if dividends on any new series of preferred stock have not been paid; · dilution of the voting power of common stock and other series of preferred stock to the extent that a new series of preferred stock has voting rights, or to the extent that any new series of preferred stock is convertible into common stock; · dilution of the equity interest of common stock and other series of preferred stock; and · limitation on the right of holders of common stock and other series of preferred stock to share in Cano’s assets upon liquidation until satisfaction of any liquidation preference attributable to any new series of preferred stock. The terms of our Preferred Stock and the provisions in our corporate governance documents regarding the granting of additional preferred stock may deter or render more difficult proposals to acquire control of our company, including proposals a stockholder might consider to be in his or her best interest, impede or lengthen a change in membership of our Board of Directors and make removal of our management more difficult. Furthermore, Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between our company and owners of 15% or more of our common 25 Table of Contents stock. These provisions apply even if an acquisition proposal is considered beneficial by some stockholders and therefore could depress the value of our common stock. The conversion price of our Preferred Stock may be lowered if we issue shares of our common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price, which could cause further dilution to our common stockholders. Subject to certain exclusions, if we issue common stock at a price less than the existing conversion price for our Preferred Stock, the conversion price shall be adjusted downward which would further dilute our common stock holders upon conversion. Our Preferred Stock has voting rights both together with and separate from our common stock, which could adversely affect our common stockholders. The holders of our Preferred Stock vote together with the holders of our common stock on an as-converted basis, subject to a limitation on how many votes the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock holders may cast if the conversion price falls below $4.79. In addition, approval of holders of a majority of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock is required for us to take the following actions: · to modify the certificate of incorporation or bylaws in a manner adverse to the Preferred Stock; · increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock; · create any class of preferred stock that has a preference over or is in parity with the Preferred Stock with respect to dividends or liquidation; · purchase, repurchase or redeem any share of common stock; · pay dividends or make any other distribution on the common stock; or · circumvent a right of the Preferred Stock. These voting rights may have an adverse impact on the common stock and the voting power of our common stockholders. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including withholding tax) on gains realized on disposition of our shares, and U.S. investors selling our shares may be required to certify as to their status in order to avoid withholding. Since we are a United States real property holding corporation, a non-U.S. holder of our common stock will generally be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gains realized on a sale or other disposition of our common stock. Certain non-U.S. holders of our common stock may be eligible for an exception to the foregoing general rule if our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which the sale or disposition occurs. However, we cannot offer any assurance that our common stock will be so traded in the future. If our common stock is not considered to be regularly traded on an established securities market during the calendar year in which a sale or disposition occurs, the buyer or other transferee of our common stock will generally be required to withhold tax at the rate of 10% of the sales price or other amount realized, unless the transferor furnishes an affidavit certifying that it is not a foreign person in the manner and form specified in applicable Treasury regulations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 