Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any of the following events, should they actually occur, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Risk Factors Related to the Pending Merger with WSB Holdings, Inc. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the pending merger with WSB, as discussed above in “Item-1 Business” will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining the businesses of Old Line Bancshares and WSB. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, however, we must successfully combine the businesses of Old Line Bancshares and WSB. If we are unable to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Old Line Bancshares and WSB have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of key depositors or other bank customers, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect Old Line Bancshares’ and WSB’s ability to maintain their relationships with their respective clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies may, to some extent, also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Old Line Bancshares and WSB during such transition period. 19 The market price of Old Line Bancshares common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting the shares of Old Line Bancshares or WSB currently. The businesses of Old Line Bancshares and WSB differ and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company’s shares of common stock may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our independent results of operations and the market prices of our common stock. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete our merger with WSB, including the approval of our stockholders, in the anticipated timeframe. Completion of the merger is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including approval of the merger and the merger agreement by our stockholders and approval of the merger by WSB’s stockholders. If the stockholders do not approve the merger and/or the merger agreement at the special stockholders meetings, we will not consummate the merger. Completion of the merger is also conditioned upon customary closing conditions. Although Old Line Bancshares and WSB have agreed in the merger agreement to use reasonable best efforts to consummate the merger, the other conditions to the merger may fail to be satisfied. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the merger may take longer than, and could cost more than we expect. Any delay in completing the merger may adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from the merger and the integration of our business with WSB’s business. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the execution of the merger agreement and the merger. The completion of the merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions; including the approval of the stockholders of Old Line Bancshares and WSB and the receipt of regulatory approvals. We have received all of the required regulatory approvals, and each of Old Line Bancshares and WSB has scheduled a special meeting of their stockholders on April 15, 2013 to vote on approval of the merger and/or the merger agreement. There is no guarantee that we will receive the required stockholder approvals. If the merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition because we will not realize the expected benefits. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. If we do not complete the merger, it may adversely affect our ongoing business and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: · We may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay WSB a termination fee of $750,000 under the merger agreement; · We will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; and · Matters relating to the merger may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management that they could otherwise have devoted to other opportunities that may be beneficial to us. · In addition, if we do not complete the merger we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. · If we do not complete the merger, we cannot assure our stockholders that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. Pending litigation related to the merger may delay or prevent the merger and could cause us to incur significant costs and expenses. As discussed in “Item-3 Legal Proceedings” Rosalie Jones, both individually and on behalf of a putative class of WSB’s stockholders, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court for Prince George’s County, Maryland, against WSB and its directors as well as Old Line Bancshares. The complaint asks the Court to enjoin the merger based on allegations that, among others things, the merger consideration to be paid to stockholders of WSB is inadequate and, in approving that consideration and the other terms of the merger agreement, the directors of WSB breached their fiduciary duties to stockholders. If the merger is consummated prior to the time these claims are adjudicated, then the plaintiff has asked the Court to rescind the merger or award rescissory damages to the plaintiff and the other members of the putative class of stockholders. While the defendants have entered into a memorandum of understanding with the plaintiff that contemplates a settlement between the parties (which must be approved by the court), there can be no assurance that the parties will enter into a stipulation of settlement or, if they do, that the court will approve any proposed settlement, or that any eventual settlement will be under the same terms as those contemplated by the memorandum of understanding. If the parties do not enter into a stipulation of settlement or the court does not approve such a stipulation of settlement, then this litigation could delay or even prevent the merger and could cause us to incur significant legal fees and other costs to defend the claims, which could reduce the aggregate merger consideration that will be payable to stockholders of WSB if and when the merger is consummated and/or adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations of both before and after the merger. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in the defense of these claims. 20 Risk Factors Relating to Old Line Bancshares’ Business If economic conditions deteriorate further, our borrowers’ ability to repay loans may decline and the value of the collateral securing our loans may decrease. These conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declining real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events may adversely affect our financial results. While the recession that began in 2007 has officially ended and there continues to be evidence of improvement in the economy, it remains unclear when conditions will improve to the extent that they will positively impact borrowers’ ability to repay their loans in general and demand for loans overall. Although signs of stability have emerged, we expect that the business environment in the State of Maryland and the entire United States will continue to present challenges for the foreseeable future. Further continuing economic uncertainty, including regarding concerns about U.S. debt levels and related governmental actions, including potential tax increases and cuts in government spending such as those imposed by the recent “sequester” and continuing economic problems in Europe, may hamper the ongoing recovery or otherwise negatively impact economic conditions going forward. Although we have seen limited and sporadic pockets of price stability or even appreciation in our market area, there remains potential for future decline in real estate values. Because real estate related loans comprise a significant portion of our loans, continued decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans in our portfolio. Although the adverse economic climate during the past five years has not severely impacted us due to our strict underwriting standards, further adverse changes in the economy, including increased unemployment or the economy moving back into a recession, could have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. If U.S. markets and economic conditions do not significantly improve or further deteriorate, it could adversely affect our liquidity. Old Line Bank must maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure cash flow is available to satisfy current and future financial obligations including demand for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding of operating costs and other corporate purposes. We obtain funding through deposits and various short term and long term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased, unsecured borrowings, brokered certificates of deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta and others. Economic uncertainty and disruptions in the financial system may adversely affect our liquidity. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past five years, falling real estate prices and increased foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset value write downs by financial institutions, including government sponsored entities and investment banks. These investment write downs have caused financial institutions to seek additional capital. Should we experience a substantial deterioration in our financial condition or should disruptions in the financial markets restrict our funding, it would negatively impact our liquidity. To mitigate this risk, we closely monitor our liquidity and maintain a line of credit with the Federal Home Loan Bank and have received approval to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 21 Our need to comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation could have an adverse effect on our business and our growth strategy. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to attract and retain personnel and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. In light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial sector, we fully expect there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions’ regulatory agencies in the near future. We further anticipate that regulatory authorities may enact additional laws and regulations in response to the ongoing financial crisis that could have an impact on our operations. Changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the service and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, increase compliance challenges and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Old Line Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes the new federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “BCFP”), includes provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation disclosure at all SEC reporting companies, allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts, broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments, and includes new restrictions on how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations to implement its various provisions. There are many regulations under the Dodd-Frank act that have not yet been proposed or adopted. We will not know the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business for years until regulations implementing the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations and will likely result in additional costs and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Further, if the industry responds to provisions allowing financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts by competing for those deposits with interest bearing accounts, this may put some degree of downward pressure on our net interest margin when and if interest rates begin to increase. Because we serve a limited market area in Maryland, an economic downturn in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our current primary market area consists of the suburban Maryland (Washington, D.C. suburbs) counties of Anne Arundel, Calvert, Charles, Montgomery, Prince George’s and St. Mary’s. We have expanded in the counties in which we have historically operated and into Calvert, Montgomery and St. Mary’s Counties, Maryland and may expand in contiguous northern and western counties, such as Howard County, Maryland. However, broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. Overall, during the last five years, the business environment negatively impacted many businesses and households in the United States and worldwide. Although the economic decline has not impacted the suburban Maryland and Washington D.C. suburbs as adversely as other areas of the United States, it has caused an increase in unemployment and business failures and a decline in property values. As a result, if our market area continues to suffer an economic downturn, it may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects larger bank competitors. In particular, due to the proximity of our primary market area to Washington, D.C., decreases in spending by the Federal government, including as a result of recent cuts implemented by the “sequester” that became effective on March 1, 2013 could impact us more than banks that serve a larger or a different geographical area. Our larger competitors, for example, serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market area. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. 22 We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and our business could suffer. Our success depends substantially on the skills and abilities of our executive management team, including James W. Cornelsen, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph E. Burnett, our Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer, and Sandi F. Burnett, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer. They provide valuable services to us and would be difficult to replace. Although we have entered into employment agreements with these executives, the existence of such agreements does not assure that we will retain their services. Christine M. Rush, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has notified us of her resignation from Old Line Bancshares and Old Line Bank effective May 10, 2013. While we believe we have in house personnel who are well positioned to assume Ms. Rush’s duties upon her departure, and thus do not anticipate any material adverse effects from her departure, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. Also, our growth and success and our anticipated future growth and success, in a large part, is due and we anticipate will be due to the relationships maintained by our banking executives with our customers. The loss of services of one or more of these executives or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our business could suffer. The experienced commercial lenders that we have hired are not a party to any employment agreement with us and they could terminate their employment with us at any time and for any reason. Our growth and expansion strategy may not be successful. Our ability to grow depends upon our ability to attract new deposits, identify loan and investment opportunities and maintain adequate capital levels. We may also grow through acquisitions of existing financial institutions or branches thereof. There are no guarantees that our expansion strategies will be successful. Also, in order to effectively manage our anticipated and/or actual loan growth we have and may continue to make additional investments in equipment and personnel, which also will increase our non-interest expense. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, growth could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our concentrations of loans in various categories may also increase the risk of credit losses. We currently invest more than 25% of our capital in various loan types and industry segments, including commercial real estate loans and loans to the hospitality industry (hotels/motels). While recent declines in the local commercial real estate market have not caused the collateral securing our loans to exceed acceptable loan to value ratios, a further deterioration in the commercial real estate market could cause deterioration in the collateral securing these loans and/or a decline in our customers’ earning capacity. This could negatively impact us. Although we have made a large portion of our hospitality loans to long term, well established operators in strategic locations, a continued decline in the occupancy rate in these facilities could negatively impact their earnings. This could adversely impact their ability to repay their loan, which would adversely impact our net income. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Management, through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, even under normal economic conditions, we cannot predict such losses with certainty. The unprecedented volatility experienced in the financial and capital markets during the last four years makes this determination even more difficult as processes we use to estimate the allowance for loan losses may no longer be dependable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions that may not be accurate. As a result, we cannot be sure that our allowance is or will be adequate in the future. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, our earnings will suffer. 23 As of December 31, 2012, commercial and industrial, construction, and commercial real estate mortgage loans comprise approximately 89.50% of our loan portfolio. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate or consumer loans and typically have larger balances than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. A deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. Such an increase could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends on interest rates and changes in monetary policy may impact us. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts, and the interest income received from our interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities. Interest rates, because they are influenced by, among other things, expectations about future events, including the level of economic activity, federal monetary and fiscal policy, and geopolitical stability, are not predictable or controllable. Additionally, competitive factors heavily influence the interest rates we can earn on our loan and investment portfolios and the interest rates we pay on our deposits. Community banks are often at a competitive disadvantage in managing their cost of funds compared to the large regional, super regional or national banks that have access to the national and international capital markets. These factors influence our ability to maintain a stable net interest margin. We seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or reprice during any period so that we may reasonably predict our net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence our ability to maintain this neutral position. Generally speaking, our earnings are more sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates the greater the variance in the volume of assets and liabilities that mature and reprice in any period. The extent and duration of the sensitivity will depend on the cumulative variance over time, the velocity and direction of interest rates, and whether we are more asset than liability sensitive. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining this neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may suffer. The market value of our investments could negatively impact stockholders’ equity. We have designated all of our investment securities portfolio (and 19.90% of total assets) at December 31, 2012 as available for sale. We “mark to market” temporary unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available for sale portfolio and reflect this adjustment as a separate item in stockholders’ equity, net of taxes. As of December 31, 2012, we had temporary unrealized gains in our available for sale portfolio of $2.5 million (net of taxes). As a result of the recent economic recession and the continued economic slowdown, several municipalities continue to report budget deficits and companies continue to report lower earnings. These budget deficits and lower earnings could cause temporary and other than temporary impairment charges in our investment securities portfolio and cause us to report lower net income and a decline in stockholders’ equity. Any future issuances of common stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise could dilute your ownership of Old Line Bancshares. We may use our common stock to acquire other companies or to make investments in banks and other complementary businesses in the future. We may also issue common stock, or securities convertible into common stock, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital in connection with future acquisitions, to satisfy regulatory capital requirements or for general corporate purposes. Any such stock issuances would dilute your ownership interest in Old Line Bancshares and may dilute the per share value of the common stock. Our future acquisitions, if any, may cause us to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. While we currently have no agreements to acquire additional financial institutions, other than pursuant to the pending merger with WSB, we may do so in the future if an attractive acquisition opportunity arises that is consistent with our business plan. Any future business acquisitions could be material to us, and the degree of success achieved in acquiring and integrating these businesses into Old Line Bancshares could have a material effect on the value of our common stock. In addition, any acquisition could require us to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, we could become more susceptible to future economic downturns and competitive pressures. 24 We face limits on our ability to lend. The amount of our capital limits the amount that we can loan to a single borrower. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2012, we were able to lend approximately $10.6 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our larger competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We generally try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. Additional capital may not be available when needed or required by regulatory authorities. Federal and state regulatory authorities require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance future acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or our regulators may require that we raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms if we needed to raise additional capital. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing stockholders. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, or on desirable terms, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We face substantial competition which could adversely affect our growth and operating results. We operate in a competitive market for financial services and face intense competition from other financial institutions both in making loans and in attracting deposits. Many of these financial institutions have been in business for many years, are significantly larger, have established customer bases, have greater financial resources and lending limits than we do, and are able to offer certain services that we are not able to offer. If we cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, our operating results will suffer, as will our opportunities for growth. System failure or cybersecurity breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other potential losses. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure we use, including our Internet banking activities, against damage from physical break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and other disruptive problems caused by the Internet or other users. Such computer break-ins and other disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customers, and inhibit current and potential customers from our Internet banking services, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Each year, we add additional security measures to our computer systems and network infrastructure to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity breaches including firewalls and penetration testing, but there can be no assurance that such security measures will be effective in preventing such breaches, damage or failures. We continue to investigate cost effective measures to mitigate any potential losses, and have insurance protection; intended to cover losses due to network security breaches; there is no guarantee, however, that such insurance, would cover all costs associated with any breach, damage or failure of our computer systems and network infrastructure. 25 Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that they have historically held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable as we are not an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. 