Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and a history of losses, and we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future, on a quarterly or annual basis. We were established in March 2002 and sold our first product in February 2004. We have not been profitable in any quarterly period since we were formed. We incurred net losses of $7.8 million, $6.8 million and $9.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $49.4 million. We expect to make significant expenditures related to the development of our products and expansion of our business, including research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. As a public company, we will also incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen difficulties, complications, product delays and other unknown factors that require additional expenditures. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain substantially increased revenues to achieve and maintain 15 Table of Contents profitability, which we may never do. In addition, the percentage growth rates we achieved in prior periods may not be sustainable and we may not be able to increase our revenues sufficiently in absolute dollars to ever reach profitability. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our future revenues are difficult to predict. A significant portion of our sales typically occurs during the last month of a quarter. As a result, we typically cannot predict our revenues in any particular quarter with any certainty until late in that quarter. Our storage products typically are shipped shortly after orders are received. As a result, revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Revenues for any future period are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Moreover, spending on storage solutions has historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns of business enterprises. We believe our recent rapid growth has masked the cyclicality and seasonality of our business. The third quarter is generally the slowest sales quarter in the storage industry. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term and are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. If revenue levels are below our expectations, we may incur higher losses and may never reach profitability. Our operating results may be disproportionately affected by a reduction in revenues because a proportionately smaller amount of our expenses varies with our revenues. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict, even in the near term. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock would likely decline substantially. In addition to other risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect our operating results include: • hardware and software configuration and mix; • fluctuations in demand, including due to seasonality, for our products and services; • changes in pricing by us in response to competitive pricing actions; • reductions in end users’ budgets for information technology purchases and delays in their purchasing cycles; • the sale of Storage Center in the timeframes we anticipate, including the number and size of orders in each quarter; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet end user requirements; • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or by our competitors; • any significant changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including new entrants or substantial discounting of products; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses and the costs of the components we purchase; • the extent to which our end users renew their service and maintenance agreements with us; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock compensation expenses; and • general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and dominated by large corporations and we may not be able to compete effectively. The storage market is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly changing technology. This competition could make it more difficult for us to sell our products, and result in increased pricing pressure, reduced 16 Table of Contents gross margin, increased sales and marketing expense and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share or expected market share which would likely result in lower revenue. Our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • our products’ functionality, scalability, performance, ease of use, reliability, availability and cost effectiveness relative to that of our competitors’ products; • our success in utilizing new and proprietary technologies to offer products and features previously not available in the marketplace; • our success in identifying new markets, applications and technologies; • our ability to attract and retain value-added resellers, which we refer to as channel partners; • our name recognition and reputation; • our ability to recruit software engineers and sales and marketing personnel; and • our ability to protect our intellectual property. Potential end users may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. In the event a potential end user decides to evaluate a new storage system, the end user may be more inclined to select one of our competitors whose product offerings are broader than just storage systems. In addition, potential end users may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, regardless of product performance or features. Most of our new end users have installed storage systems, which gives an incumbent competitor an advantage in retaining an end user because it already understands the network infrastructure, user demands and information technology needs of the end user, and also because it is costly and time-consuming for end users to change storage systems. A number of very large corporations have historically dominated the storage market. We consider our primary competitors to be companies that provide Storage Area Network, or SAN products, including a number of established public companies, such as Dell, Inc., which completed its acquisition of EqualLogic, Inc. in January 2008, EMC Corporation, Hewlett-Packard Company, Hitachi Data Systems Corporation, IBM and Network Appliance, Inc., and newly public companies, such as 3PAR, Inc. and a number of private companies, such as Xiotech Corporation, LeftHand Networks and others. Some of our competitors, including Dell, EMC and Network Appliance, have made acquisitions of businesses that allow them to offer more directly competitive and comprehensive solutions than they had previously offered. Most of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. We expect to encounter new competitors as we enter new markets as well as increased competition, both domestically and internationally, from other established and emerging storage companies, original equipment manufacturers, and from systems and network management companies. In addition, there may be new technologies that are introduced that reduce demand for, or make our, storage solution architecture obsolete. Our current and potential competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties and rapidly acquire significant market share. Increased competition could also result in price reductions and loss of market share, any of which could result in lower revenue and reduced gross margins. Aggressive business tactics by our competitors may reduce our revenue. Increased competition in the markets in which we compete may result in aggressive business tactics by our competitors, including: • selling at a discount; • offering bundled software at no charge; • announcing competing products combined with extensive marketing efforts; • offering to repurchase our system from existing end users; • providing financing, marketing and advertising assistance to customers; and 17 Table of Contents • asserting intellectual property rights irrespective of the validity of the claims. If we fail to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, or if our current or future competitors employ aggressive business tactics, including those described above, demand for Storage Center could decline, we could experience delays or cancellations of end users orders, or we could be required to reduce our prices or increase our expenses. We are dependent on a single product, and the lack of continued market acceptance of Storage Center would result in lower revenue. Storage Center accounts for all of our revenue and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As a result, our revenue could be reduced by: • any decline in demand for Storage Center; • the failure of Storage Center to achieve continued market acceptance; • the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, Storage Center; • technological innovations or new communications standards that Storage Center does not address; and • our inability to release enhanced versions of Storage Center on a timely basis. We are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in demand for storage area network products in general and Storage Center in particular. If the storage markets grow more slowly than anticipated or if demand for Storage Center does not grow as quickly as anticipated, whether as a result of competition, product obsolescence, technological change, unfavorable economic conditions, uncertain geopolitical environment, budgetary constraints of our end users or other factors, we may not be able to increase our revenues sufficiently to ever achieve profitability and our stock price would decline. Our products must meet exacting specifications, and defects and failures may occur, which may cause channel partners or end users to return or stop buying our products. Our channel partners and end users generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that our products must meet. However, our products are highly complex and may contain undetected defects and failures when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past and may in the future discover software errors in new versions of Storage Center or new products or product enhancements after their release or introduction, which could result in lost revenue during the period required to correct such errors. Despite testing by us and by current and potential end users, errors may not be found in new releases or products until after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of or delay in market acceptance. Storage Center may also be subject to intentional attacks by viruses that seek to take advantage of these bugs, errors or other weaknesses. If defects or failures occur in Storage Center, a number of negative effects in our business could result, including: • lost revenue; • increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with end user support; • delays or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments; • product returns or discounts; • diversion of management resources; • damage to our reputation and brand equity; • payment of damages for performance failures; • reduced orders from existing channel partners and end users; and • declining interest from potential channel partners or end users. 18 Table of Contents In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues may negatively impact our relationship with our channel partners and end users. Our revenue could be lower and our expenses could increase if any of the foregoing occurs. Our end users utilize Storage Center to manage their data. As a result, we could face claims resulting from any loss or corruption of our end users’ data due to a product defect. Our contracts with end users contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and could result in public perception that our products are not effective, even if the occurrence is unrelated to the use of our products or services. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our costs to defend and cover such claims, if any, will increase. We may not sustain our percentage growth rate, and we may not be able to manage any future growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in a short period of time. Our revenues increased from $3.9 million in 2004 to $51.2 million in 2007. We do not expect to achieve similar percentage growth rates in future periods. You should not rely on our operating results for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth in dollars, we may never achieve profitability and our stock price could decline. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our ability to successfully manage our anticipated expansion and growth. To manage our growth successfully and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we must effectively, among other things: • increase our channel partners and end users in the small to medium size enterprises, or SME market; • address new markets, such as large enterprise end users and end users outside the United States; • control expenses; • recruit, hire, train and manage additional qualified engineers; • add additional sales and marketing personnel; • expand our international operations; and • implement and improve our administrative, financial and operational systems, procedures and controls. We intend to increase our investment in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative and other functions to grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these increased investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could increase our net losses. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products or enhancements to existing products and we may fail to satisfy end user requirements, maintain product quality, execute on our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, which could result in lower revenue and a decline in our stock price. Our gross margin may vary and such variation may make it more difficult to forecast our earnings. Our gross margin has been and may continue to be affected by a variety of other factors, including: • demand for Storage Center and related services; • discount levels and price competition; • average order system size and end user mix; • hardware and software component mix; • the cost of components; 19 Table of Contents • level of fixed costs of customer service personnel; • the mix of services as a percentage of revenue; • new product introductions and enhancements; and • geographic sales mix. Changes in gross margin may result from various factors such as continued investments in our Copilot Services, increases in our fixed costs, changes in the mix between technical support services and professional services, as well as the timing and amount of maintenance agreement initiations and renewals. We receive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of channel partners, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from one or more of our major channel partners would result in lower revenue. Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of channel partners. We market and sell Storage Center through an all-channel assisted sales model and we derive substantially all of our revenue from these channel partners. We generally enter into agreements with our channel partners outlining the terms of our relationship, including channel partner sales commitments, installation and configuration training requirements, and the channel partners’ acknowledgement of the existance of our sales registration process for registering potential systems sales to end users. These contracts typically have a term of one year and are terminable without cause upon written notice to the other party. We receive a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of channel partners. For 2007, 2006 and 2005, our top ten channel partners accounted for 45%, 49% and 60% of our revenue, respectively. One channel partner accounted for 13% of our revenue in 2007, and no channel partner accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2006 and 2005. We anticipate that we will continue to be dependent upon a limited number of channel partners for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future and, in some cases, a portion of our revenue attributable to individual channel partners may increase in the future. The loss of one or more key channel partners or a reduction in sales through any major channel partner would reduce our revenue. We may not be able to maintain existing channel partners or grow our business to include more channel partners and large enterprise end users. In order for us to maintain our current revenue sources and grow our revenue, we must effectively manage and grow relationships with qualified channel partners that have relationships with SMEs. In order to execute on our strategy to expand our sales to large enterprises and to end users internationally, we must develop relationships with channel partners that sell into these markets. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technology and product offerings requires significant time and resources. In order to develop and expand our channels, we must continue to scale and improve our processes and procedures that support our channel partners, including investments in systems and training, and those processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and difficult to manage. If we fail to maintain existing channel partners or develop relationships with new channel partners, our revenue opportunities will be reduced. If our channel partners give higher priority to our competitors’ storage products we may be unable to grow our revenue and we may continue to incur net losses. We have no long-term contracts with any of our channel partners, and our reseller agreements with our channel partners do not prohibit them from offering competitive products or services. Many of our channel partners also sell competitors’ products. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to our existing and potential channel partners to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of Storage Center. Our channel partners may choose not to offer our products exclusively or at all. Moreover, the channel partners that we do business with also compete with one another. If one of our channel partners views our arrangement with another partner as competing with its products, it may decide to stop doing business with us. If we fail to establish and maintain successful relationships with channel partners our revenues will be reduced and we may continue to incur net losses. 20 Table of Contents The loss of any key suppliers or the failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or successfully manage our relationships with our key suppliers could negatively impact our ability to sell our products. We maintain relatively low inventory, generally only for repairs and evaluation and demonstration units, and acquire components only as needed on a purchase order basis, and neither we nor our key suppliers enter into supply contracts for these components. As a result, our ability to respond to channel partner or end user orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability, terms and pricing of these components. Our industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical components in the future as a result of strong demand in the industry or other factors. If we or our suppliers inaccurately forecast demand for our products, our suppliers may have inadequate inventory, which could increase the prices we must pay for substitute components or result in our inability to meet demand for our products, as well as damage our channel partner or end user relationships. We currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for components such as system controllers, enclosures, disk drives and switches utilized in the assembly of Storage Center. We generally purchase components on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term supply contracts with these suppliers. In particular, we rely on Bell Microproducts, Inc., a value-added distributor, to provide us with customized system controllers, which Bell Microproducts generally obtains from Supermicro Computer, Inc., a server and component manufacturer. We also rely on Xyratex Corporation, a provider of data storage subsystems, to provide us with their custom enclosures and disk drives. Xyratex purchases most of the disk drives that it supplies to us from Seagate Technology, Inc., a disk drive manufacturer. Our reliance on these key suppliers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over product quality, production costs, timely delivery and capacity. It also exposes us to the potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, because we do not have long-term supply commitments and generally purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Component quality is particularly significant with respect to our suppliers of disk drives. To meet our product performance requirements, we must obtain disk drives of extremely high quality and capacity. In addition, there are periodic supply-and-demand issues for disk drives that could result in component shortages, selective supply allocations and increased prices of such components. We may not be able to obtain our full requirements of components, including disk drives, that we need for our storage products or the prices of such components may increase. If we fail to effectively manage our relationships with our key suppliers, or if our key suppliers increase prices of components, experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, our ability to ship products to our channel partners or end users could be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be adversely affected. Qualifying a new key supplier is expensive and time-consuming. If we are required to change key suppliers or assume internal manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our channel partner or end user relationships. If our third-party repair service fails to timely and correctly resolve hardware failures experienced by our end users, our reputation will suffer, our competitive position will be impaired and our expenses could increase. We rely upon Anacomp Inc., or Anacomp, a third-party hardware maintenance provider, which specializes in providing vendor-neutral support of storage equipment, network devices and peripherals, to provide repair services to our end users. We currently have limited capabilities in-house to resolve hardware failures or other issues experienced by our end users. If Anacomp fails to timely and correctly resolve hardware failures or issues experienced by our end users, our reputation will suffer our competitive position will be impaired and our expenses could increase. Our agreement with Anacomp automatically renews for successive two year periods, commencing in March 1, 2008, unless either party notifies the other, in writing, of its intention to terminate or renegotiate the agreement at least 90 days prior to the end of the two year term. In addition, either party may immediately terminate the agreement for a material breach by the other party that is not cured within 30 days. In late 2007, we notified Anacomp of our intention to engage in renegotiation of certain contractual terms. To facilitate this renegotiation, Anacomp agreed to extend our current agreement from March 1, 2008 through April 30, 2008, or the amendment term. If necessary the amendment term may be further revised for an additional period or either party may provide a minimum of 60 days written notice of its intention to terminate the agreement. If Anacomp were to end their relationship with us, we would have to engage a new third-party provider of hardware support, and the transition could result in delays in effecting repairs and damage our reputation and competitive position as well as increase our operating expenses. 21 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in developing and selling new products, services and product enhancements, our competitive position will be adversely affected and our ability to grow our revenue will be impaired. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapid technological change, changing end user needs, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to anticipate, develop, market and support new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our end users. We may fail to develop and market products and services that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards, experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products and services, or fail to develop products and services that adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop and market such products and services on a timely basis would erode our competitive position and impair our ability to grow our revenue. As part of our product development efforts, we release new versions of our software and related applications on a regular basis. Due to the complexity of enterprise storage products and the difficulty in gauging the development effort required to produce new versions and new products, these new versions and new products are subject to significant technical risks. New versions and new products may not be introduced on a timely basis or at all. If potential new products are delayed or do not achieve market acceptance, our revenue may be reduced and our competitive position may be impaired. We may also find that we need to incorporate certain proprietary third-party technologies, including software programs, into our products in the future. However, licenses to relevant third-party technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Therefore, we could face delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products and any such delays may adversely affect our revenue and our ability to compete. If our channel partners fail to timely and correctly install and configure our storage systems, or face disruptions in their business, our reputation will suffer, our competitive position could be impaired and we could lose customers. In addition to our small team of installation personnel, we rely upon some of our channel partners to install Storage Center at our end user locations. Our channel partner agreements generally contain provisions requiring installation and configuration training by the channel partners, which we may waive at our discretion. Although we train and certify our channel partners on the installation and configuration of Storage Center, end users have in the past encountered installation and configuration difficulties. In addition, if one or more of our channel partners suffers an interruption in its business, or experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in its operations, or we have to change or add additional channel partners, installation and configurement of Storage Center to our end users could be delayed, our revenue could be reduced and our ability to compete could be impaired. As a significant portion of our sales occur in the last month of a quarter, our end users may also experience installation delays following a purchase if we or our channel partners have too many installations in a short period of time. We currently maintain a small team of installation personnel. As our business grows we will need to recruit, train and retain additional installation personnel and may not be able to do so, which would adversely affect our ability to compete. If we or our channel partners fail to timely and correctly install and configure Storage Center, end users may not purchase additional products and services from us, our reputation could suffer and our revenue could be reduced. In addition, we will incur additional expenses to correctly install and configure Storage Center to meet the expectations of our end users. As we enter new markets we may encounter longer sales, payment and implementation cycles, which could have an adverse effect on the size, timing and predictability of our revenue. Potential or existing end users, particularly larger business enterprise end users, generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available storage systems and could require us or our channel partners to expend substantial time, effort 22 Table of Contents and money educating them as to the value of our storage products. Sales of Storage Center to end users sometimes require an extensive education and marketing effort. If we are able to penetrate additional large enterprise end users, our sales cycle may lengthen. In addition, as our end user base grows, we may be subject to longer payment cycles, particularly in international markets. Our sales cycle and our collection of revenues for Storage Center is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: • our end users’ budgetary constraints; • the timing of our end users’ budget cycles and approval processes; • our channel partners’ and end users’ credit risks; • our end users’ willingness to replace their current storage solutions; • our or our channel partners’ need to educate end users about the uses and benefits of our products and services; and • the timing of the expiration of our end users’ current license agreements or outsourcing agreements for similar services. If we fail to attract or retain engineering or sales and marketing personnel or if we lose the services of our founders or key management, our ability to grow our business and our competitive position would be impaired. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled managerial, research and development, sales and marketing personnel. Our management, research and development, sales and marketing personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our business strategy, technological and product innovations, and sales and marketing initiatives. As a result, our success is substantially dependent upon our ability to attract additional personnel for all areas of our organization, particularly in our research and development department and our sales and marketing department. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel on a timely basis or on competitive terms. Any failure to adequately expand our management, research and development, sales and marketing personnel will impede our growth. In addition, many qualified personnel are located outside of the Minneapolis geographic area where our headquarters are located, and some qualified personnel that we may recruit may not be interested in relocating. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel on a cost-effective basis, our ability to grow our business and our competitive position would be impaired. In particular, we are highly dependent on the contributions of our three founders, Philip E. Soran, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, John P. Guider, our Chief Operating Officer, and Lawrence E. Aszmann, our Chief Technology Officer. The loss of any of our founders could make it more difficult to manage our operations and research and development activities, reduce our employee retention and revenue and impair our ability to compete. If any of our founders were to leave us unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity during the search for and while any such successor is integrated into our business and operations. The loss of any of our founders or the inability to attract, retain or motivate qualified personnel, including research and development and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and impair our ability to, sell our products. We expect to face numerous challenges as we attempt to grow our operations, and our channel partner and end user base internationally. Historically, we have conducted little business internationally. We have only one international office and revenue from international sales was 11%, 5%, and 3% during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Although we expect that part of our future revenue growth will be from channel partners and end users located outside of the United States, we may not be able to increase international market demand for Storage Center. In March 2005, we entered into a marketing agreement with AMEX, Inc., an export firm, pursuant to which we granted AMEX exclusive distribution rights to resell Storage Center to resellers and end users internationally, except Canada. In January 2008, we entered into a new marketing agreement with AMEX containing similar exclusive distribution rights as the March 2005 agreement. AMEX agrees to use its best efforts to further the promotion, marketing and 23 Table of Contents sale of Storage Center. The marketing agreement is renewable on an annual basis each January unless either party notifies the other party in writing of an intention to discontinue the relationship at least 90 days prior to the renewal date. If AMEX is not successful in helping us expand our international distribution channel, our revenue and our ability to compete internationally could be impaired. We expect to face numerous challenges as we attempt to grow our operations, channel partner relationships and end user base internationally, in particular attracting and retaining channel partners with international capabilities or channel partners located in international markets. Our revenue and expenses could be adversely affected by a variety of factors associated with international operations some of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties of managing and staffing international offices, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with international locations; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • difficulty in contract enforcement; regulatory, political or economic conditions in a specific country or region; • compliance with local laws and regulations and unanticipated changes in local laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations; • export and import controls; trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements; • effects of changes in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences; service provider and government spending patterns; • reduced protection of our intellectual property and other assets in some countries; • greater difficulty documenting and testing our internal controls; • differing employment practices and labor issues; and • man-made problems such as computer viruses and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. In addition, we expect that we may encounter increased complexity and costs of managing international operations, including longer and more difficult collection of receivables, difficulties in staffing international operations, local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, differing employment practices and labor issues, and work stoppages, any of which could result in lower revenue and higher expenses. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our ability to compete effectively or to defend ourselves from litigation could be impaired which could reduce our revenue and increase our costs. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how. We have patents pending in the United States and in foreign countries. Even if the pending patent applications are granted, the rights granted to us may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. Even if the pending patent applications are granted, these patents could be opposed, contested, circumvented or designed around by our competitors or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. Foreign patent protection is generally not as comprehensive as U.S. patent protection and may not protect our intellectual property in some countries where our products are sold or may be sold in the future. Many U.S.-based companies have encountered substantial intellectual property infringement in foreign countries, including countries where we sell or intend to sell products. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Although we are not aware of any unauthorized use of our intellectual property in the past, it is possible that unauthorized use of our intellectual 24 Table of Contents property may have occurred or may occur without our knowledge. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could reduce the value of our technology in licensing arrangements or in cross-licensing negotiations, and could impair our ability to compete. We may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be expensive, time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical staff and managerial personnel, which could result in lower revenue and higher expenses, whether or not such litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in a significant diversion of management’s time and increased expenses. The storage industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to ordinary business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We have received and expect that in the future we may receive, particularly as a public company, communications from various industry participants alleging our infringement of their patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights and/or offering licenses to such intellectual property. Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; • lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property against others; • incur significant legal expenses; • pay substantial damages to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing; • redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; or • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We expect that companies in the storage market will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights from any litigation we face could damage our reputation, impair our ability to compete and increase our expenses. Our channel partners and end users could also become the target of litigation relating to the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. This could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations in our licenses or maintenance agreements. These obligations could result in substantial expenses, including the payment by us of costs and damages relating to claims of intellectual property infringement. In addition to the time and expense required for us to provide support or indemnification to our channel partners or end users, any such litigation could disrupt the businesses of our channel partners or end users, which in turn could hurt our relationships with our channel partners or end users and cause the sale of our products to decrease. Claims for indemnification may be made and such claims may adversely affect our reputation, impair our ability to compete and increase our expenses. If we fail to comply with the terms of our open source software license agreement, we could be required to release portions of our software codes, which could impair our ability to compete and result in lower revenue. Storage Center utilizes a software application called eCos, an “open source,” royalty-free, real-time operating system intended for embedded applications. eCos is licensed to us under a modified version of version 2.0 of the GNU General Public License. Open source software is often made available to the public by its authors and/or other 25 Table of Contents third parties under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License, which impose certain obligations on licensees in the event such licensees re-distribute and/or make derivative works of the open source software. The terms of our license to the eCos application require us to make source code for the derivative works freely available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of commercial license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software to avoid subjecting our proprietary products to conditions we do not intend, in the event the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public, stop distribution of that work and/or recall our products that include that work. In this event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, to re-engineer our products, or to recall and/or discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could impair our ability to compete, result in lower revenue and increase our expenses. If our products do not interoperate with our end users’ networks, servers or software applications, installations would be delayed or cancelled. Our products must interoperate with our end users’ existing infrastructure, specifically their networks, servers and software applications. This infrastructure often utilizes multiple protocol standards, products from multiple vendors, including our channel partners, and a wide range of storage features. If we find, as we have in the past, defects in the existing software or hardware used in our end users’ infrastructure or an incompatibility or deficiency in Storage Center, we may have to modify Storage Center so that our product will interoperate with our end users’ infrastructure. This could cause longer sales and implementation cycles for Storage Center and could cause order cancellations, either of which would result in lower revenue. We cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, investors may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our storage products in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could result in lower revenue and reduce the competitiveness of our storage product offerings. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders, reduce our financial resources and result in increased expenses. In the future, we may acquire other businesses, products or technologies. We have not made any acquisitions to date. Accordingly, our ability as an organization to make acquisitions is unproven. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals, or these acquisitions may be viewed negatively by channel partners, end users, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel, technologies and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities and increase our expenses. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the 26 Table of Contents incurrence of debt. We cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operating or financial results. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. We are subject to export control laws that limit the products we sell and where and to whom we sell Storage Center internationally. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technologies and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute Storage Center or could limit our end users’ ability to implement Storage Center in those countries. Changes in Storage Center or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of Storage Center in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying Storage Center throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of Storage Center to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of Storage Center by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell Storage Center to, existing or potential customers with international operations. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management devotes substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from regulations regarding corporate governance practices. The listing requirements of NYSE Arca require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and a code of conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations, coupled with the increase in potential litigation exposure associated with being a public company, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, for the year ending December 31, 2008, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock would likely decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NYSE Arca, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be impaired. In connection with the audit of 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a significant deficiency as a result of our failure to have the appropriate financial management and reporting infrastructure in place that resulted in the restatement of our 2004 and 2005 financial statements and the recording of a 2006 adjustment due to the misallocation of discounts in our revenue recognition process. Our independent registered 27 Table of Contents public accounting firm also identified a significant deficiency in 2006 related to the segregation of duties in our finance department. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. Control deficiencies may individually, or in combination, give rise to a significant deficiency or a material weakness. A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the registrant’s financial reporting. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected by a company’s internal controls. We have completed a remediation plan which addressed the significant deficiencies identified in the 2006 audit. Specifically, we have (i) implemented improved policies and procedures to ensure a review of contracts is performed and VSOE has been established and maintained prior to revenue recognition; (ii) refined our policies for the designation of duties for inputting, reviewing and reconciling billing processes as well as reviews by management; (iii) continued to limit access to our information technology systems with financial impact to those individuals who require access to fulfill their job responsibilities; (iv) increased uniformity and consistency with respect to customer contracts, accounting records and related documentation; and (v) maintained an increased level of management review of key processes, particularly the revenue cycle and sales process. Management has completed an evaluation of the effectiveness of these additional controls and has concluded that the significant deficiencies described above have been remediated as of December 31, 2007. We cannot assure you that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have additional, material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure of our internal controls could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our “internal control over financial reporting” that will be required when the rules of the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act become applicable to us beginning with the required filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. We expense stock options, which will reduce our net income or increase our net losses in future periods. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS No. 123(R), which requires the measurement of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in our statements of operations. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted the fair-value-based recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the prospective transition method, which requires us to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) only to awards granted, modified, repurchased or cancelled after the adoption date. Under the prospective method, we will continue to account for any portion of awards outstanding at January 1, 2006 using accounting principles originally applied to those awards under Accounting Principles Board, Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. The total expense reported for 2007 and 2006 related to stock options amounted to $762,000 and $52,000, respectively. This amount is expected to increase in future years as new grants are made to employees and other service providers. These additional expenses will increase operating costs and correspondingly reduce our net income or increase our net losses in future periods. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is volatile and from October 10, 2007, the first day of trading of our common stock, to March 14, 2008, our stock has had closing low and high sales prices in the range of $7.94 to $24.19 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; 28 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • economic developments in the storage industry as a whole; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets; • changes in financial estimates including our ability to meet our future revenue and operating profit or loss projections; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • disruption to our operations; • any major change in our board of directors or management; and • changes in governmental regulations. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decrease, regardless of our actual operating performance. These trading price fluctuations may also make it more difficult for us to use our common stock as a means to make acquisitions or to use options to purchase our common stock to attract and retain employees. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our stock, publish negative research or reports, or do not publish reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our market. If one or more analysts adversely change their recommendation regarding our stock or our competitors’ stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. A limited number of stockholders will have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 54.3% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including electing directors, adopting new compensation plans and approving mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other stockholders, including those who purchase shares in this offering. The price of our stock could decrease as a result of shares of common stock being sold in the market. If our existing stockholders, particularly our directors, their affiliated venture capital funds and our executive officers, sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or are perceived by investors as 29 Table of Contents intending to sell, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of December 31, 2007, we had 30,593,468 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 23,638,676 shares are currently subject to market standoff agreements entered into by certain of our stockholders with us or contractual lock-up agreements entered into by certain of our stockholders with the underwriters in connection with our initial public offering and will become freely tradable on April 7, 2008, subject to extension or reduction, upon the expiration of the restrictions contained in these market standoff agreements and contractual lock-up agreements, except for shares of common stock held by directors, executive officers and our other affiliates which will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and, in certain cases, various vesting arrangements. Some of our existing stockholders have demand and piggyback rights to require us to register with the SEC up to 18,939,164 shares of our common stock. If we register these shares of common stock, the stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market, subject to the market standoff agreements and the lock-up agreements described above. We also registered 6,411,016 and intend to register 1,682,640 shares of our common stock subject to outstanding stock options and reserved for issuance under our equity plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to vesting restrictions, the market standoff agreements and the lock-up agreements described above. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable and result in a lower market price for our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the division of our board of directors into three classes; • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for the advance notice of nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of our common stock; • the elimination of the rights of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • the required approval of at least 662/3% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the inability of stockholders to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; and • the required approval of at least a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors without cause. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, particularly those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage 30 Table of Contents potential takeover attempts, could reduce the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and could potentially result in the market price being lower than they would without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 