Item 1A. Risk FactorsWeak economic conditions worldwide may reduce consumer demand for our products and servicesThe prolonged economic uncertainty in various regions of the world in which our subsidiaries and affiliates operate could adversely affect demand for our products and services since a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from discretionary spending by individuals, which typically falls during times of economic instability. Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including increased volatility and diminished liquidity and credit availability. If economic and financial market conditions in the U.S. or other key markets, including Japan and Europe, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, our customers may respond by suspending, delaying, or reducing their discretionary spending. A suspension, delay or reduction in discretionary spending could adversely affect revenue. Accordingly, our ability to increase or maintain revenue and earnings could be adversely affected to the extent that relevant economic environments remain weak or decline. Such weak economic conditions may also inhibit our expansion into new European and other markets. We currently are unable to predict the extent of any of these potential adverse effects.The retail business environment is subject to intense competition, and we may not be able to effectively compete for customersWe operate in a rapidly evolving and highly competitive retail business environment. Although we are the U.S.'s largest television shopping retailer, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, ranging from large department stores to specialty shops, electronic retailers, direct marketing retailers, wholesale clubs, discount retailers, other televised shopping retailers such as HSN and EVINE Live, formerly known as ShopHQ, in the U.S., Shop Channel in Japan, HSE 24 in Germany and Ideal World in the U.K., infomercial retailers, Internet retailers, and mail-order and catalog companies. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers and greater brand recognition than we do. They may secure better terms from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing, offer free or subsidized shipping and devote more resources to technology, fulfillment and marketing. Other companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions.We also compete for access to customers and audience share with other providers of televised, online and hard copy entertainment and content. Our inability to compete effectively with regard to the assortment, product price, shipping terms, shipping pricing or free shipping and quality of the merchandise we offer for sale or to keep pace with competitors in our marketing, service, location, reputation, credit availability and technologies, could have a material adverse effect.We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, that, if not properly remediated, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective as of December 31, 2014 due to a material weakness at the Company. Specifically, we identified a material weakness relating to the design and effectiveness of information technology general controls intended to ensure (i) that access to applications and data, and the ability to make program changes, were adequately restricted to appropriate personnel and (ii) that the activities of individuals with access to modify data and make program changes were appropriately monitored. This material weakness did not result in any misstatements of our consolidated financial statements and disclosures for any annual or interim period.As further described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” the Company is in the process of taking the necessary steps to remediate the material weakness that we identified and have made enhancements to the Company's control procedures; however, the material weakness will not be remediated until the necessary controls have been implemented and are determined to be operating effectively. Although no assurance can be given as to when the remediation plan will be completed, management believes the remediation efforts will be completed during the third quarter of 2015.We cannot assure you that our efforts to fully remediate this internal control weakness will be successful or that additional or similar material weaknesses will not develop or be identified.Implementing any appropriate changes to the Company's internal controls may distract its officers and employees and entail material costs to implement new processes and/or modify its existing processes. Moreover, these changes do not guarantee that we will be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could harm our business.I-11Our net revenue and operating results depend on our ability to predict or respond to consumer preferencesOur net revenue and operating results depend, in part, on our ability to predict or respond to changes in consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. We develop new retail concepts and continuously adjust our product mix in an effort to satisfy customer demands. Consumer preferences may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including responses of competitors and general economic conditions. Any sustained failure by us to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect.Our long-term success depends in large part on our continued ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers and we may not be able to do that in a cost-effective mannerIn an effort to attract and retain customers, we engage in various merchandising and marketing initiatives, which involve the expenditure of money and resources, particularly in the case of the production and distribution of our television programming and, to a lesser but increasing extent, online advertising. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, certain of these initiatives, particularly in our continuing efforts to increasingly engage customers through online and mobile channels and to personalizing our customers' shopping experience. These initiatives, however, may not resonate with existing customers or consumers generally or may not be cost-effective. In addition, costs associated with the production and distribution of our television programming and costs associated with online marketing, including search engine marketing (primarily the purchase of relevant keywords), have increased and are likely to continue to increase in the foreseeable future and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect to the extent that they do not result in corresponding increases in net revenue.We depend on the television distributors that carry our programming and no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain and renew our affiliation agreements on favorable terms or at allWe currently distribute our programming through affiliation or transmission agreements with many television providers, including, but not limited to, Comcast, DIRECTV, DISH Network, Time Warner Cable and Cox in the U.S., JCN, Jupiter Telecommunications, Ltd., Sky Perfect and World Hi-Vision Channel, Inc. in Japan, Kabel Deutschland Vertrieb und Service GmbH, Media Broadcast GmbH, SES ASTRA, SES Platform Services GmbH, Telekom Deutschland GmbH, Unitymedia Kabel BW GmbH, Tele Columbus and Primacom in Germany, A1 Telekom Austria AG and UPC Telekabel Wien GmbH in Austria, Arqiva, British Sky Broadcasting, Freesat, SDN and Virgin Media in the U.K. and Mediaset, Hot Bird and Sky Italia in Italy. Our affiliation agreements with distributors are scheduled to expire between 2015 and 2022.As part of normal course renewal discussions, occasionally we have disagreements with our distributors over the terms of our carriage, such as channel placement or other contract terms. If not resolved through business negotiation, such disagreements could result in litigation or termination of an existing agreement. Termination of an existing agreement resulting in the loss of distribution of our programming to a material portion of our television households may adversely affect our growth, net revenue and earnings.The renewal negotiation process for affiliation agreements is typically lengthy. In some cases, renewals are not agreed upon prior to the expiration of a given agreement while the programming continues to be carried by the relevant distributor without an effective agreement in place. We do not have distribution agreements with some of the cable operators that carry our programming. In total, we are currently providing programming without affiliation agreements to distributors representing approximately 6% of our U.S. distribution, and short-term, rolling 90 day letters of extension, to distributors who represent approximately 24% of our U.S. distribution. Some of our international programming may continue to be carried by distributors after the expiration dates on our affiliation agreements with them have passed.We may be unable to obtain renewals with our current distributors on acceptable terms, if at all. We may also be unable to successfully negotiate affiliation agreements with new or existing distributors to carry our programming. Although we consider our current levels of distribution without written agreement to be ordinary course, the failure to successfully renew or negotiate new affiliation agreements covering a material portion of television households could result in a discontinuation of carriage that may adversely affect our viewership, growth, net revenue and earnings.I-12The failure to maintain suitable placement for our programming could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenueWe are dependent upon the continued ability of our programming to compete for viewers. Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent, in substantial part, on our ability to negotiate and maintain placement of our programming at a favorable channel position, such as in a basic tier or within a general entertainment or general broadcasting tier. The advent of digital compression technologies and the adoption of digital cable have resulted in increased channel capacity, which together with other changing laws, rules and regulations regarding cable television ownership, impacts our ability to negotiate and maintain suitable channel placement with our distributors. Increased channel capacity could adversely affect the ability to attract television viewers to our programming to the extent it results in:•a less favorable channel position for our programming, such as placement adjacent to programming that does not complement our programming, a position next to our televised home shopping competitors or isolation in a "shopping" tier;•more competitors entering the marketplace; or•more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and time-shifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over Internet connections).In addition, if our programming is carried exclusively by a distributor on a digital programming tier, we may experience a reduction in revenue to the extent that the digital programming tier has less television viewer penetration than the basic or expanded basic programming tier. We may experience a further reduction in revenue due to increased television viewing audience fragmentation to the extent that not all television sets within a digital cable home are equipped to receive television programming in a digital format. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer elements of our programming via new technologies in a cost-effective manner that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards.Any continued or permanent inability to transmit our programming via satellite would result in lost revenue and could result in lost customersOur success is dependent upon our continued ability to transmit our programming to television providers from our satellite uplink facilities, which transmissions are subject to the FCC compliance in the U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements in our international operations. In most cases, we have entered into long-term satellite transponder leases to provide for continued carriage of our programming on replacement transponders and/or replacement satellites, as applicable, in the event of a failure of either the transponders and/or satellites currently carrying our programming. However, we do have transponder service agreements in the U.K. and Germany that will expire in 2015. Although we believe we take reasonable and customary measures to ensure continued satellite transmission capability and we believe that these international transponder service agreements can be renewed (or replaced, if necessary) in the ordinary course of business, termination or interruption of satellite transmissions may occur, particularly if we are not able to successfully negotiate renewals or replacements of any of our expiring transponder service agreements in the future. Although we consider the transponder service agreements that are expiring in 2015 to be in the ordinary course, the failure to successfully renew or negotiate new transmission agreements that results in an inability to transmit our programming would result in lost revenue and could result in lost customers.I-13Our Ecommerce business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or search engine disintermediation as well as our inability to monetize the resulting web traffic. The success of our Ecommerce business depends on a high degree of website traffic, which is dependent on many factors, including the availability of appealing website content, user loyalty and new user generation from search portals that charge a fee (such as Google). In obtaining a significant amount of website traffic via search engines, we utilize techniques such as search engine optimization, or SEO (which is the practice of developing websites with relevant and current content that rank well in “organic,” or unpaid, search engine results) and search engine marketing, or SEM (which is a form of Internet marketing that involves the promotion of websites by increasing our visibility in search engine results pages through the use of paid placement, contextual advertising, and product listing ads) to improve our placement in relevant search queries. Search engines, including Google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user’s search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to the websites of our Ecommerce business can be negatively affected. Moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our website to place lower in search query results. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of SEO or SEM in a negative manner, the business and financial performance of our Ecommerce business would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent. Furthermore, our failure to successfully manage our SEO and SEM strategies could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our website, as well as increase costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic. Even if our Ecommerce business is successful in generating a high level of website traffic, no assurance can be given that our Ecommerce business will be successful in achieving repeat user loyalty or that new visitors will explore the offerings on our site. Monetizing this traffic by converting users to consumers is dependent on many factors, including availability of inventory, consumer preferences, price, ease of use and website quality. No assurance can be given that the fees paid to search portals may exceed the revenue generated by our visitors. Any failure to sustain user traffic or to monetize such traffic could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our Ecommerce business and, as a result, adversely affect our financial results.Our Ecommerce business may experience difficulty in achieving the successful development, implementation and customer acceptance of, applications for smartphone and tablet computing devices, which could harm our business.Although our Ecommerce business has developed services and applications to address user and consumer interaction with website content on smartphone and other non-traditional desktop or laptop computer systems (which typically have smaller screens and less convenient typing capabilities), the efficacy of the smartphone application is still developing. Moreover, if smartphone computing services prove to be less effective for the users of our Ecommerce business and the smartphone segment of Internet traffic grows at the expense of traditional computer and tablet Internet access, our Ecommerce business may experience difficulty attracting and retaining traffic on these platforms. Additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the challenges that may be encountered in developing versions of our Ecommerce business offering for use on these alternative devices, and our Ecommerce business may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of their services on such devices. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theftTo succeed, we must be able to provide for secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Any penetration of network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal information could cause interruptions in the operations of our business and subject us to increased costs, litigation and other liabilities. Security breaches could also significantly damage our reputation with consumers and third parties with whom we do business. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against and remedy any potential or existing security breaches and their consequences. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with which we are affiliated or otherwise conduct business online.I-14System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in these systems and infrastructures may adversely affect our ability to transmit our television programs, operate websites, process and fulfill transactions, respond to customer inquiries and generally maintain cost-efficient operationsOur success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the integrity of our transmissions, systems and infrastructures, including the transmission of our television programs, as well as our websites, information and related systems, call centers and fulfillment facilities. We may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all transmissions, systems or data unavailable or prevent us from transmitting our signal or efficiently providing services or fulfilling orders. We are in the process of implementing new technology systems and upgrading others. Our failure to properly implement new systems or delays in implementing new systems could impair our ability to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. We also rely on affiliate and third-party computer systems, broadband, transmission and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the transmission of our signals, as well as to facilitate, process and fulfill transactions. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our signal transmissions, systems and infrastructures, our business, our affiliates and/or third parties, or deterioration in the performance of these transmissions, systems and infrastructures, could impair our ability to provide services, fulfill orders and/or process transactions. Fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt television transmissions, computer, broadband or other communications systems and infrastructures at any time. Any of these events could cause transmission or system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services, fulfilling orders and/or processing transactions. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, these systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all possible risks. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption.We may be subject to claims for representations made in connection with the sale and promotion of merchandise or for harm experienced by customers who purchase merchandise from usThe manner in which we sell and promote merchandise and related claims and representations made in connection with these efforts is regulated by federal, state and local law, as well as the laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. We may be exposed to potential liability from claims by purchasers or from regulators and law enforcement agencies, including, but not limited to, claims for personal injury, wrongful death and damage to personal property relating to merchandise sold and misrepresentation of merchandise features and benefits. In certain instances, we have the right to seek indemnification for related liabilities from our vendors and may require such vendors to carry minimum levels of product liability and errors and omissions insurance. These vendors, however, may be unable to satisfy indemnification claims, obtain suitable coverage or maintain this coverage on acceptable terms, or insurance may provide inadequate coverage or be unavailable with respect to a particular claim. See Item 1. "Business - Government regulation" for further discussion of regulations to which we are subject.In 2000, we became subject to a consent decree issued by the FTC barring us from making certain deceptive claims for dietary supplements and specified products related to the common cold, pneumonia, hay fever and allergies. We also became subject to an expanded consent decree issued by the FTC in 2009 that terminates on the later of March 4, 2029, or 20 years from the most recent date that the U.S. or the FTC files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation thereunder. Pursuant to this expanded consent decree, we are prohibited from making certain claims about specified weight-loss, dietary supplement and anti-cellulite products unless we have competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate such claims. Violation of this consent decree may result in the imposition of significant civil penalties for non-compliance and related redress to consumers and/or the issuance of an injunction enjoining us from engaging in prohibited activities.I-15Failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could subject us to additional liabilitiesWe market and provide a broad range of merchandise through television shopping programs and our websites. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions, including foreign jurisdictions, which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the license requirements for television retailers in foreign jurisdictions, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities, as well as laws and regulations applicable to the Internet and businesses engaged in online commerce, such as those regulating the sending of unsolicited, commercial electronic mail. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in a revocation of required licenses, fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs and/or subject us to additional liabilities. Similarly, new disclosure and reporting requirements, established under existing or new state or federal laws, such as regulatory rules regarding requirements to disclose efforts to identify the origin and existence of certain "conflict minerals" or abusive labor practices in portions of our supply chain, could increase the cost of doing business, adversely affecting our results of operations. Finally, certain of these regulations impact the marketing efforts of our brands and business.The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rightsIn the processing of consumer transactions, our business receives, transmits and stores a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the privacy and data security policies maintained by us. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. Our failure, and/or the failure by the various third party vendors and service providers with which we do business, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could damage our reputation and the reputation of our third party vendors and service providers, discourage potential users from trying our products and services and/or result in fines and/or proceedings by governmental agencies and/or consumers, any one or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses.We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third partiesWe regard our intellectual property rights, including service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights (including our programming and our websites), trade secrets and similar intellectual property, as critical to our success. Our business also relies heavily upon software codes, informational databases and other components that make up their products and services.From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights, particularly our proprietary brands, in a meaningful manner or third party challenges to related contractual rights could result in erosion of brand names and limit our ability to control marketing on or through the Internet using our various domain names or otherwise, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.I-16We have operations outside of the U.S. that are subject to numerous operational and financial risksWe have operations in countries other than the U.S. and we are subject to the following risks inherent in international operations:•fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries that may increase the uncertainty associated with recoverable accounts;•recessionary conditions and economic instability, including fiscal policies that are implementing austerity measures in certain countries, which are affecting markets overseas;•our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. at favorable tax rates;•potentially adverse tax consequences;•export and import restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers;•increases in taxes and governmental royalties and fees;•changes in foreign and U.S. laws, regulations and policies that govern operations of foreign-based companies;•changes to general consumer protection laws and regulations;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and•threatened and actual terrorist attacks, political unrest in international markets and ongoing military action around the world that may result in disruptions of services that are critical to our international businesses.Additionally, in many foreign countries, particularly in certain developing economies, it is not uncommon to encounter business practices that are prohibited by regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws. Although we have undertaken compliance efforts with respect to these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies and procedures. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies and procedures or the law, could have a material adverse effect. Any failure by us to effectively manage the challenges associated with the international operation of our business could have a material adverse effect.We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver the products we sellWe rely on third party carriers to deliver merchandise from vendors and manufacturers to us and to ship merchandise to our customers. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and delays due to factors that are beyond our control, including employee strikes, inclement weather and regulation and enforcement actions by customs agencies. Any failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and brand and could cause us to lose customers. Enforcement actions by customs agencies can also cause the costs of imported goods to increase, negatively affecting our profits.We are also impacted by increases in shipping rates charged by third party carriers, which over the past few years, have increased significantly in comparison to historical levels. We currently expect that shipping and postal rates will continue to increase. In the case of deliveries to customers, in each market where we operate, we have negotiated agreements with one or more independent, third party shipping companies, which in certain circumstances provide for favorable shipping rates. If any of these relationships were to terminate or if a shipping company was unable to fulfill its obligations under its contract for any reason, we would have to work with other shipping companies to deliver merchandise to customers, which would most likely be at less favorable rates. Other potential adverse consequences of changing carriers include:•reduced visibility of order status and package tracking;•delays in order processing and product delivery; and•reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged products and customer dissatisfaction.I-17Any increase in shipping rates and related fuel and other surcharges passed on to us by our current carriers or any other shipping company would adversely impact profits, given that we may not be able to pass these increased costs directly to customers or offset them by increasing prices without a detrimental effect on customer demand.We depend on relationships with vendors, manufacturers and other third parties, and any adverse changes in these relationships could result in a failure to meet customer expectations which could result in lost revenueWe purchase merchandise from a wide variety of third party vendors, manufacturers and other sources pursuant to short- and long-term contracts and purchase orders. Our ability to identify and establish relationships with these parties, as well as to access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner on acceptable terms and cost, can be challenging. In particular, we purchase a significant amount of merchandise from vendors and manufacturers abroad, and cannot predict whether the costs for goods sourced in these markets will remain stable. We depend on the ability of vendors and manufacturers in the U.S. and abroad to produce and deliver goods that meet applicable quality standards, which is impacted by a number of factors, some of which are not within the control of these parties, such as political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs, among others.Our failure to identify new vendors and manufacturers, maintain relationships with a significant number of existing vendors and manufacturers and/or access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner could cause us to miss customer delivery dates or delay scheduled promotions, which would result in the failure to meet customer expectations and could cause customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to source merchandise in sufficient quantities, which could result in lost revenue.We face significant inventory riskWe are exposed to significant inventory risks that may adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in consumer demand, consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory or components are ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast demand. The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results.The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operationsOur net revenue in recent years indicates that our business is seasonal due to a higher volume of sales in the fourth calendar quarter related to year-end holiday shopping. In recent years, we have earned, on average, between 22% and 23% of our global revenue in each of the first three quarters of the year and 32% of our global revenue in the fourth quarter of the year. If our vendors are not able to provide popular products in sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other third party shipping (or carrier) companies may be unable to meet the seasonal demand.To the extent we pay for holiday merchandise in advance of the holidays (i.e., in August through November of each year), our available cash may decrease, resulting in less liquidity. We have limited availability under our revolving credit facility and may not be able to access financing to the extent our cash balance is impaired. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.Failure to effectively manage our Easy-Pay and revolving credit card programs could result in less incomeWe offer Easy-Pay in the U.S., Germany, the U.K., and Italy (known as Q-Pay in Germany and Italy), a payment plan that when offered by QVC, allows customers to pay for certain merchandise in two or more monthly installments. When the QVC Easy-Pay Plan is offered by QVC and elected by the customer, the first installment is typically billed to the customer's credit card upon shipment. Generally, the customer's credit card is subsequently billed up to five additional monthly installments until the total purchase price of the products has been billed by QVC. We cannot predict whether customers will pay all of their Easy-Pay installments.I-18In addition, QVC-U.S. has an agreement with a large consumer financial institution (the "Bank") pursuant to which the Bank provides revolving credit directly to our customers for the sole purpose of purchasing merchandise from us with a QVC branded credit card ("Q Card"). We receive a portion of the net economics of the credit card program. We cannot predict the extent to which customers will use the Q Card, nor the extent that they will make payments on their outstanding balances.Our success depends in large part on our ability to recruit and retain key employees capable of executing our unique business modelWe have a business model that requires us to recruit and retain key employees, including management, with the skills necessary for a unique business that demands knowledge of the general retail industry, television production, direct to consumer marketing and fulfillment and the Internet. We cannot assure you that if we experience turnover of our key employees we will be able to recruit and retain acceptable replacements because the market for such employees is very competitive and limited.We have not voluntarily implemented various corporate governance measures, in the absence of which you may have more limited protections against interested transactions, conflicts of interest and similar mattersFederal legislation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, encourages the adoption of various corporate governance measures designed to promote the integrity of corporate management and the securities markets. Some of these measures have been adopted in response to legal requirements. Others have been adopted by companies in response to the requirements of national securities exchanges on which their securities are listed. Among the corporate governance measures that are required under the rules of national securities exchanges are those that address board of directors' independence and audit committee oversight.As a “close corporation” under Delaware law, our stockholder, rather than a board of directors, manages our business. Our stockholder is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty, meaning that we do not have any independent governing body. In addition, we have not adopted corporate governance measures such as the implementation of an audit committee or other independent governing body. It is possible that if we were to appoint a board of directors and include one or more independent directors and adopt some or all of these corporate governance measures, there may be somewhat greater assurances that internal corporate decisions were being made by disinterested directors and that policies had been implemented to define responsible conduct. However, our stockholder has the ability to make decisions regarding transactions with related parties and corporate actions that could involve conflicts of interest. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and President, Michael A. George, became a named executive officer and director of Liberty during 2011. Investors should bear in mind our current lack of independent directors, the positions with Liberty that are held by Mr. George and corporate governance measures in formulating their investment decisions.The interests of our stockholder may not coincide with your interests and our stockholder may make decisions with which you may disagreeOur stockholder is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Liberty. As a “close corporation” under Delaware law, our stockholder, rather than a board of directors, manages our business. As a result, Liberty controls certain aspects of our management, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as a change of control. The interests of Liberty may not coincide with our interests or your interests. For example, Liberty's dependence on our cash flow for servicing Liberty's debt and for other purposes, including payments of dividends on Liberty's capital stock, stock repurchases or to fund acquisitions or other operational requirements of Liberty and its subsidiaries is likely to result in our payment of large dividends to Liberty when permitted by law or the terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding senior secured notes, which may increase our accumulated deficit or require us to borrow under our senior secured credit facility, increasing our leverage and decreasing our liquidity. We have made significant distributions to Liberty in the past. See Item 1. "Business - Liberty relationship and related party transactions."We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligationsWe have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, we had total debt of approximately $4.6 billion, consisting of $4.0 billion in senior secured notes, $0.5 billion under our senior secured credit facility and $74 million of capital lease obligations. We also had an additional $1.5 billion available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility as of that date. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future.I-19Our level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility in responding to current market conditions, adversely affect our financial position, prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments or otherwise restrict our business activitiesThe existence of and limitations on the availability of our debt could have important consequences. The existence of debt could, among other things:•require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness;•limit our ability to use cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, which reduces the funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities;•increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; or•expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facility, are at variable interest rates.Limitations imposed as a part of the debt, such as the availability of credit and the existence of restrictive covenants may, among other things:•make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the notes and our other indebtedness;•restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;•limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes on satisfactory terms or at all;•limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and•limit our ability to respond to business opportunities.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligationsOur ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness.Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still incur substantially more indebtedness, which could exacerbate the risks associated with our existing indebtednessWe and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our senior secured credit facility and the notes will limit, but not prohibit, us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. Also, our subsidiaries could incur additional indebtedness that is structurally senior to the notes or we and our subsidiaries could incur indebtedness secured by a lien on assets that do not constitute collateral, including assets of ours and our subsidiaries, and the holders of such indebtedness will have the right to be paid first from the proceeds of such assets. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the notes and the guarantees, the holders of that indebtedness will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the notes and the guarantees in any proceeds distributed in connection with our insolvency, liquidation, reorganization or dissolution. This may have the effect of reducing the amount of proceeds paid to the existing note holders. In addition, existing note holders' rights to the collateral would be diluted by any increase in the indebtedness secured by this collateral. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.I-20Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business in many waysOur senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing the notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:•incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;•pay dividends or make distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase debt;•make loans, investments and capital expenditures;•enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;•sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;•enter into certain transactions with affiliates;•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and•designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.In addition, our senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requires us to maintain a specified leverage ratio. Our ability to meet this leverage ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility, which in turn could result in a default under the indentures governing the notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. Our senior secured credit facility, our notes and certain future indebtedness are secured by a first priority perfected lien in all shares of our capital stock. If the lenders and counterparties under our senior secured credit facility, our notes and certain future indebtedness accelerate the repayment of obligations, we may not have sufficient assets to repay such obligations. Our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will also increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income would decrease.Our ability to pay dividends or make other restricted payments to Liberty is subject to limited restrictionsThere are no restrictions under our bond indentures on QVC's ability to pay dividends or make other restricted payments if QVC is not in default on its senior secured notes and QVC's consolidated leverage ratio would be no greater than 3.50 to 1.0 (under QVC's senior secured credit facility, this ratio is 3.25 to 1.0). As a result, Liberty will, in many instances, be permitted to rely on QVC's cash flow for servicing Liberty's debt and for other purposes, including payments of dividends on Liberty's capital stock, if declared, or to fund acquisitions or other operational requirements of Liberty and its subsidiaries. These events may deplete QVC's retained earnings or require QVC to borrow under the senior secured credit facility, increasing QVC's leverage and decreasing liquidity. QVC has made significant distributions to Liberty in the past. See Item 1. "Business - Liberty relationship and related party transactions."Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.I-21