Risk Factors” section herein for more information regarding the impact of government regulation on our Company. Intellectual Property Our success as a company depends upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections. We generally control access to, and the use of, our proprietary software and other confidential information. This protection is accomplished through a combination of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers, and partners, and through a combination of U.S. and international copyright laws. We license some of our software pursuant to agreements that impose restrictions on our customers’ ability to use such software, such as prohibiting reverse engineering and limiting the use of copies. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by relying on non-disclosure and assignment of intellectual property agreements with our employees and consultants that acknowledge our exclusive ownership of all intellectual property developed by the individual during the course of his or her work with us. The agreements also require that each person maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information disclosed to them. We incorporate a number of third party software programs into certain of our software and information technology platforms pursuant to license agreements. Some of this software is proprietary and some is open source. We use third-party software to, among other things, maintain and enhance content generation and delivery, and support our technology infrastructure. We have registered, or have pending applications for the registration of, certain of our trademarks. We actively manage our trademark portfolio, maintain long standing trademarks that are in use, and file applications for trademark registrations for new brands in all relevant jurisdictions. Research and Development Our research and development, or R&D, expenditures primarily consist of our investment in internally developed software. We incurred $35.4 million, $27.5 million and $14.6 million for R&D activities in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and we capitalized 46.3%, 40.4% and 46.7% of these expenses, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, our software development, product management and quality assurance activities 13 Table of Contents involved approximately 380 employees. We expect to incur significant research and development costs in the future due to our continuing investment in internally developed software as we intend to release new features and functionality, expand our content offerings, upgrade and extend our service offerings, and develop new technologies. Information Availability Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as amended, are available free of charge on our website (www.medassets.com under the “Investor Relations” caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”). The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, projected or implied in any forward-looking statement, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below which constitute material risks and uncertainties known to us that we believe could affect our future growth, results of operations, performance and business prospects and opportunities. You should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all the potential risks and uncertainties regarding our business and the trading price of our securities. Additional risks not presently known to us, or which we currently consider immaterial, may adversely impact our business and the trading price of our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or expand market share within our industry, and if we do not maintain or expand our market share, our business and operating results will be harmed. The market for our products and services is fragmented, intensely competitive and characterized by the frequent introduction of new products and services and by rapidly evolving industry standards, technology and customer needs. Our revenue cycle management products and services compete with products and services provided by large, well-financed and technologically-sophisticated entities, including: information technology providers such as Eclipsys Corporation, McKesson Corporation, and Siemens Corporation, Inc.; consulting firms such as Accenture Ltd., Accretive Health, Inc., Deloitte & Touche LLP, Ernst & Young LLP, Huron Consulting, Inc., Navigant Consulting, Inc. and The Advisory Board Company; and providers of niche products and services such as Concuity Inc., Craneware Inc., Ingenix (formerly CareMedic Systems, Inc.), Emdeon Inc., Passport Health Communications, Inc. and The SSI Group, Inc. The primary competitors to our spend management products and services are other large GPOs, such as Amerinet, Broadlane, HealthTrust LLC, Novation LLC and Premier, Inc., as well as a number of the consulting firms named above. In addition, some large health systems may choose to contract directly with vendors for some of their larger categories of supply expenses. With respect to both our revenue cycle management and spend management products and services, we compete on the basis of several factors, including breadth, depth and quality of product and service offerings, ability to deliver financial improvement through the use of products and services, quality and reliability of services, ease of use and convenience, brand recognition, ability to integrate services with existing technology and price. Many of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater name recognition, have larger customer bases and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Other of our competitors have proprietary technology that differentiates their product and service offerings from ours. As a result of these competitive advantages, our competitors and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to market forces, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands, products and 14 Table of Contents services and make more attractive offers to customers. In addition, many GPOs are owned by the provider-customers of the GPO, which enables our competitors to distinguish themselves on that basis. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our current customers or expand our customer base in this competitive environment. If we do not retain current customers or expand our customer base, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Additionally, as a result of larger agreements that we have entered into in the recent past with certain of our customers, a larger portion of our revenue is now attributable to a smaller group of customers. Although no single customer accounts for more than four percent of our total net revenue as of December 31, 2009, any significant loss of business from these large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could also adversely affect our ability to compete effectively and could harm our business. Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power and economic conditions may force additional consolidation. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide services to industry participants will become more intense and the importance of existing relationships with industry participants will become greater. We may face pricing pressures that could limit our ability to maintain or increase prices for our products and services. We may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including, without limitation, competition within the industry, consolidation of healthcare industry participants, practices of managed care organizations, government action affecting reimbursement and certain of our customers who experience significant financial stress. If our competitors are able to offer products and services that result, or that are perceived to result, in customer financial improvement that is substantially similar to or better than the financial improvement generated by our products and services, we may be forced to compete on the basis of additional attributes, such as price, to remain competitive. In addition, as healthcare providers consolidate to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power, these providers may try to use their market power to negotiate fee reductions for our products and services. Our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare and Medicaid programs. Government actions could limit government spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to healthcare providers, and increase emphasis on competition and other programs that could have an adverse effect on our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. Additionally, if our current and prospective customers do not benefit from any broader economic recovery, this may exacerbate pricing pressure. If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, because cash flow from operations funds our working capital requirements, reduced profitability could require us to raise additional capital sooner than we would otherwise need. If we are not able to offer new and valuable products and services, we may not remain competitive and our revenue and results of operations may suffer. Our success depends on providing products and services that healthcare providers use to improve financial performance. Our competitors are constantly developing products and services that may become more efficient or appealing to our customers. In addition, certain of our existing products may become obsolete in light of rapidly evolving industry standards, technology and customer needs, including changing regulations and provider reimbursement policies. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that customers and potential customers will want. Many of our customer relationships are nonexclusive or terminable on short notice, or otherwise terminable after a specified term. If our new or modified product and service innovations are not responsive to user preferences or industry or regulatory 15 Table of Contents changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing customers and be unable to obtain new customers and our results of operations may suffer. We may experience significant delays in generating, or an inability to generate, revenues if potential customers take a long time to evaluate our products and services. A key element of our strategy is to market our products and services directly to large healthcare providers, such as health systems and acute care hospitals and to increase the number of our products and services utilized by existing health system and acute care hospital customers. The evaluation process is often lengthy and involves significant technical evaluation and commitment of personnel by these organizations. The use of our products and services may also be delayed due to an inability or reluctance to change or modify existing procedures. If we are unable to sell additional products and services to existing health system and hospital customers, or enter into and maintain favorable relationships with other large healthcare providers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. Unsuccessful implementation of our products and services with our customers may harm our future financial success. Some of our new-customer projects are complex and require lengthy and significant work to implement our products and services. Each customer’s situation may be different, and unanticipated difficulties and delays may arise as a result of failure by us or by the customer to meet respective implementation responsibilities. If the customer implementation process is not executed successfully or if execution is delayed, our relationships with some of our customers may be adversely impacted and our results of operations will be impacted negatively. In addition, cancellation of any implementation of our products and services after it has begun may involve loss to us of time, effort and resources invested in the cancelled implementation as well as lost opportunity for acquiring other customers over that same period of time. These factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly in the near term and during any period in which our sales volume is relatively low. If we are unable to maintain our third party providers, strategic alliances or enter into new alliances, we may be unable to grow our current base business. Our business strategy includes entering into strategic alliances and affiliations with leading healthcare service providers. We work closely with our strategic partners to either expand our penetration in certain areas or classes of trade, or expand our market capabilities. We may not achieve our objectives through these alliances. Many of these companies have multiple relationships and they may not regard us as significant to their business. These companies may pursue relationships with our competitors or develop or acquire products and services that compete with our products and services. In addition, in many cases, these companies may terminate their relationships with us with little or no notice. If existing alliances are terminated or we are unable to enter into alliances with leading healthcare service providers, we may be unable to maintain or increase our market presence. If the protection of our intellectual property is inadequate, our competitors may gain access to our technology or confidential information and we may lose our competitive advantage. Our success as a company depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as customary contractual protections. We utilize a combination of internal and external measures to protect our proprietary software and confidential information. Such measures include contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers, and partners, as well as U.S. copyright laws. We protect the intellectual property in our software pursuant to customary contractual protections in our agreements that impose restrictions on our customers’ ability to use such software, such as prohibiting reverse engineering and limiting the use of copies. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by 16 Table of Contents relying on non-disclosure and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that acknowledge our ownership of all intellectual property developed by the individual during the course of his or her work with us. The agreements also require each person to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information disclosed to them. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights adequately against these parties. The disclosure to, or independent development by, a competitor of any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent could materially adversely affect any competitive advantage we may have over any such competitor. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our rights or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we might be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our business could be subject to greater pricing pressure. If we are alleged to have infringed on the rights of others, we could incur unanticipated costs and be prevented from providing our products and services. We could be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our applications’ functionality overlaps with competitor products. While we do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties, we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us or that those claims will be unsuccessful. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. In addition, a number of our contracts with our customers contain indemnity provisions whereby we indemnify them against certain losses that may arise from third-party claims that are brought in connection with the use of our products. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. In addition, third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. Our sources of data might restrict our use of or refuse to license data, which could adversely impact our ability to provide certain products or services. A portion of the data that we use is either purchased or licensed from third parties or is obtained from our customers for specific customer engagements. We also obtain a portion of the data that we use from public records. We believe that we have all rights necessary to use the data that is incorporated into our products and services. However, in the future, data providers could withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so; if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data; or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of the data that we currently use in our products and services. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw their data, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted. 17 Table of Contents Our use of “open source” software could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. A significant portion of the products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, “Apache-style” licenses, “Berkeley Software Distribution,” “BSD-style” licenses and other open source licenses. We attempt to monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend; however, there can be no assurance that our efforts have been or will be successful. There is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is somewhat unknown and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies. For example, we may be subjected to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our products that use particular open source software at no cost to the user; that we make available the source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal costs defending ourselves against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be subject to significant damages; be enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained the open source software; and be required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, which could substantially help our competitors develop products that are similar to or better than ours. Our failure to license and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business. We depend upon licenses from third-party vendors for some of the technology and data used in our applications, and for some of the technology platforms upon which these applications operate, including Microsoft and Oracle. We also use third-party software to maintain and enhance, among other things, content generation and delivery, and to support our technology infrastructure. Some of this software is proprietary and some is open source. These technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which will harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses to compete directly with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which may subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We have grown through, and anticipate that we will continue to grow through, acquisitions of competitive and complementary businesses. We evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis and regularly pursue acquisition opportunities. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the 18 Table of Contents value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. In addition, we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than we do. We anticipate that we may finance acquisitions through cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under our existing credit facility and other indebtedness. Borrowings necessary to finance acquisitions may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting management’s attention; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities, known and unknown; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and nonrecurring acquisition-related charges; • experiencing an adverse impact on our earnings from the amortization of acquired intangible assets, as well as from any future impairment of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets as a result of certain economic, competitive or regulatory changes impacting the fair value of these assets; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • entering new markets with which we are not familiar; and • failing to retain key personnel of, vendors to and customers of the acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on our primary product and service offerings. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes We have and may continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $215.2 million. Our interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $18.1 million. As the rate at which interest is assessed on our outstanding indebtedness is variable, a modest interest rate increase could result in a substantial increase in interest expense. As a method to mitigate this risk, during 2007, we entered into an interest rate collar for $155.0 million of our indebtedness and the terms of such hedging agreement expire June 30, 2010, prior to the maturity date of our indebtedness (the interest rate collar sets a maximum interest rate of 6.0% and a minimum interest rate of 2.85%). During 2009, we entered into a London Inter-bank Offered Rate (or “LIBOR”) interest rate swap with a notional amount of $138.3 million beginning June 30, 2010, which effectively converts a portion of our variable rate term loan credit facility to a fixed rate debt. The notional amount subject to the swap has pre-set quarterly step downs corresponding to our anticipated principal reduction schedule. The interest rate swap converts the three-month LIBOR rate on the corresponding notional amount of debt to an effective fixed rate of 1.99% (exclusive of the applicable bank margin charged by our lender). Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health in the following ways: • a material portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest on and principal of our outstanding indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures; • our substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or other adverse events in our business or our industry; 19 Table of Contents • our substantial degree of leverage could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes limiting our ability to maintain the value of our assets and operations; and • our revolving credit facility matures in October 2011 and our term loan facility matures in October 2013. If cash flow from operations is less than our debt service responsibilities, we may face financial risk that could increase interest expense and hinder our ability to refinance our debt obligations. In addition, our existing credit facility contains, and future indebtedness may contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, ratios and tests that limit our ability to incur additional debt and engage in other activities that may be in our long-term best interests. For example, our existing credit facility includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens on assets, engage in certain lines of business, engage in certain mergers or consolidations, dispose of assets, make certain investments or acquisitions, engage in transactions with affiliates, enter into sale leaseback transactions, enter into negative pledges or pay dividends or make other restricted payments. Our existing credit facility also includes financial covenants, including requirements that we maintain compliance with a consolidated leverage ratio and a consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with the covenants and ratios contained in our existing credit facility or in the agreements governing our future indebtedness may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our existing credit facility prohibits us from making dividend payments on our common stock if we are not in compliance with each of our financial covenants and our restricted payment covenant. We are currently in compliance with our existing covenants; however, any future event of default, if not waived or cured, could result in the acceleration of the maturity of our indebtedness under our existing credit facility. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our existing credit facility could proceed against the security granted to them to secure that indebtedness. If the lenders accelerate the payment of our indebtedness, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full such indebtedness. Due to the challenging conditions of the financial markets and uncertain economic environment, our lenders may not be able to fund our borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Financial institutions that have extended commitments under our revolving credit facility may be unable or unwilling to fund borrowings under their existing commitments to us if they are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to borrow against a significant portion of the commitments under our revolving credit facility because of lender defaults. We may need to obtain additional financing which may not be available or, if it is available, may result in a reduction in the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. We may need to raise additional funds in order to: • finance unanticipated working capital requirements; • develop or enhance our technological infrastructure and our existing products and services; • fund strategic relationships; • respond to competitive pressures; and • acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance technology or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt 20 Table of Contents securities, the percentage ownership of our then-existing stockholders will be reduced, and these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the solutions we sell in certain jurisdictions, we may be subject to tax liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease. Rules and regulations applicable to sales and use tax vary significantly from state to state. In addition, the applicability of these rules given the nature of our products and services, is subject to change. We may lose sales or incur significant costs should various tax jurisdictions be successful in imposing sales and use taxes on a broader range of products and services. A successful assertion by one or more tax jurisdictions that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our solutions could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete and otherwise harm our business. If one or more taxing authorities determines that taxes should have, but have not, been paid with respect to our services, we may be liable for past taxes in addition to taxes going forward. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties and if our customers fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will have incurred unplanned costs that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our services going forward will effectively increase the cost of such services to our customers and may adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new customers in the areas in which such taxes are imposed. Any significant increase in bad debt in excess of recorded estimates would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We initially evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on a number of factors, including a specific client’s ability to meet its financial obligations to us, the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collections experience. Based on these assessments, we record a reserve for specific account balances as well as a general reserve based on our historical experience for bad debt to reduce the related receivables to the amount we expect to collect from clients. Many of our customers are under intense financial pressure whose operations are characterized by declining or negative margins. If circumstances related to specific clients change, especially those of our larger clients, as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, such as a limited ability to meet financial obligations due to bankruptcy, or if conditions deteriorate such that our past collection experience is no longer relevant, the amount of accounts receivable that we are able to collect may be less than our previous estimates as we experience bad debt in excess of reserves previously recorded. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of certain factors, some of which may be outside of our control. Certain of our customer contracts contain terms that result in revenue that is deferred and cannot be recognized until the occurrence of certain events. For example, accounting principles do not allow us to recognize revenue associated with the implementation of products and services until the implementation has been completed, at which time we begin to recognize revenue over the life of the contract or the estimated customer relationship period, whichever is longer. In addition, subscription-based fees generally commence only upon completion of implementation. As a result, the period of time between contract signing and recognition of associated revenue may be lengthy, and we are not able to predict with certainty the period in which implementation will be completed. Certain of our contracts provide that some portion or all of our fees are at risk and refundable if our products and services do not result in the achievement of certain financial performance targets. To the extent that any revenue is subject to contingency for the non-achievement of a performance target, we only recognize revenue upon customer confirmation that the financial performance targets have been achieved. If a customer fails to provide such confirmation in a timely manner, our ability to recognize revenue will be delayed. 21 Table of Contents Our Spend Management segment relies on participating vendors to provide periodic reports of their sales volumes to our customers and resulting administrative fees to us. If a vendor fails to provide such reporting in a timely and accurate manner, our ability to recognize administrative fee revenue will be delayed or prevented. Certain of our fees are based on timing and volume of customer invoices processed and payments received, which are often dependent upon factors outside of our control. Other fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may be due to a number of other factors, some of which are not within our control, including: • the extent to which our products and services achieve or maintain market acceptance; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers; • the lengthy sales cycles for our products and services; • the impact of transaction fee and contingency fee arrangements with customers; • changes in our or our competitors’ pricing policies or sales terms; • the timing and success of our or our competitors’ new product and service offerings; • client decisions regarding renewal or termination of their contracts; • the amount and timing of operating costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • the amount and timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses; • the financial condition of our current and potential clients; • unforeseen legal expenses, including litigation and settlement costs; and • general economic, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to the healthcare industry. We base our expense levels in part upon our expectations concerning future revenue, and these expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. If we have lower revenue than expected, we may not be able to reduce our spending in the short term in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue would have a direct and material adverse impact on our results of operations. We believe that our quarterly results of operations may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. If our quarterly results of operations fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. If we lose key personnel or if we are unable to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel, our business would be harmed. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, integrate and retain key personnel. Our future success also depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, each of whom may be difficult to replace. In particular, John A. Bardis, our chairman, president and chief executive officer and Rand A. Ballard, our chief operating officer and chief customer officer, are critical to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of services of Messrs. Bardis or Ballard or any of our other executive officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. The replacement of any of these key individuals would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Product and Service Offerings If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, our business could suffer. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Complex software such as ours may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released. We continually introduce new software and updates and enhancements to our software. Despite testing by us, from time to time we have discovered defects or errors in our software, and such defects or errors may appear in the future. Defects and errors that are not timely detected and remedied could expose us to risk of liability to customers and the government and could cause delays in the introduction of new products and services, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications, decrease market acceptance or customer satisfaction with our products and services or cause harm to our reputation. If any of these events occur, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation and lead to significant customer relations problems. If our products or services fail to provide accurate information, or if our content or any other element of our products or services is associated with incorrect, inaccurate or faulty coding, billing, or claims submissions to Medicare or any other third-party payor, we could be liable to customers or the government which could adversely affect our business. Our products and content were developed based on the laws, regulations and third-party payor rules in existence at the time such software and content was developed. If we interpret those laws, regulations or rules incorrectly; the laws, regulations or rules materially change at any point after the software and content was developed; we fail to provide up-to-date, accurate information; or our products, or services are otherwise associated with incorrect, inaccurate or faulty coding, billing or claims submissions, then customers could assert claims against us or the government or qui tam relators on behalf of the government could assert claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act or similar state laws. The assertion of such claims and ensuing litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs to us, divert management’s attention from operations, damage our reputation and decrease market acceptance of our services. We attempt to limit by contract our liability to customers for damages. We cannot, however, limit liability the government could seek to impose on us under the False Claims Act. Further, the allocations of responsibility and limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable or otherwise protect us from liability for damages. Factors beyond our control could cause interruptions in our operations, which may adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The timely development, implementation and continuous and uninterrupted performance of our hardware, network, applications, the Internet and other systems, including those which may be provided by third parties, are important facets in our delivery of products and services to our customers. Our ability to protect these processes and systems against unexpected adverse events is a key factor in continuing to offer our customers our full complement of products and services on time in an uninterrupted manner. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by damage from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control, including without limitation: (1) power loss and telecommunications failures; (2) software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; (3) computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; (4) fire, flood and other natural disasters; and (5) attacks on our network or damage to our software and systems carried out by hackers or Internet criminals. 23 Table of Contents System failures that interrupt our ability to develop applications or provide our products and services could affect our customers’ perception of the value of our products and services. Delays or interruptions in the delivery of our products and services could result from unknown hardware defects, insufficient capacity or the failure of our website hosting and telecommunications providers to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on service providers that provide customers with access to our products and services. In addition, computer viruses may harm our systems causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store and supply information, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. Any significant interruptions in our products and services could damage our reputation in the marketplace and have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information provided to us by our customers or third parties, whether through breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. The difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information has been a significant issue when engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet. Our business relies on using the Internet to transmit confidential information. We believe that any well-publicized compromise of Internet security may deter companies from using the Internet for these purposes. Our services present the potential for embezzlement, identity theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or subcontractors with respect to third parties. If there was a disclosure of confidential information, or if a third party were to gain unauthorized access to the confidential information we possess, our operations could be seriously disrupted, our reputation could be harmed and we could be subject to claims pursuant to our agreements with our customers or other liabilities. In addition, if this were to occur, we could be perceived to have facilitated or participated in illegal misappropriation of funds, documents, or data and therefore be subject to civil or criminal liability or regulatory action. While we maintain professional liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot assure you that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim that is brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. Risks Related to Government Regulation Our business and our industry are highly regulated, and if government regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us or our business, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties, and other material limitations on our business. We and the healthcare manufacturers, distributors and providers with whom we do business are extensively regulated by federal, state and local governmental agencies. Most of the products offered through our group purchasing contracts are subject to direct regulation by federal and state governmental agencies. We rely upon vendors who use our services to meet all quality control, packaging, distribution, labeling, hazard and health information notice, record keeping and licensing requirements. In addition, we rely upon the carriers retained by our vendors to comply with regulations regarding the shipment of any hazardous materials. We cannot guarantee that the vendors are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If vendors or the providers with whom we do business have failed, or fail in the future, to adequately comply with any relevant laws or regulations, we could become involved in governmental investigations or private lawsuits concerning these regulations. If we were found to be legally responsible in any way for such failure we could be subject to injunctions, penalties or fines which could harm our business. Furthermore, any such investigation or lawsuit could cause us to expend significant resources and divert the attention of our management team, regardless of the outcome, and thus could harm our business. 24 Table of Contents In recent years, the group purchasing industry and some of its largest purchasing customers have been reviewed by the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights for possible conflict of interest and restraint of trade violations. As a response to the Senate Subcommittee inquiry, our company joined other GPOs to develop a set of voluntary principles of ethics and business conduct designed to address the Senate’s concerns regarding anti-competitive practices. The voluntary code was presented to the Senate Subcommittee in March 2006. In addition, we maintain our own Standards of Business Conduct that provide guidelines for conducting our business practices in a manner that is consistent with antitrust and restraint of trade laws and regulations. Although there has not been any further inquiry by the Senate Subcommittee since March 2006, the Senate, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission or other state or federal governing entity could at any time develop new rules, regulations or laws governing the group purchasing industry that could adversely impact our ability to negotiate pricing arrangements with vendors, increase reporting and documentation requirements or otherwise require us to modify our pricing arrangements in a manner that negatively impacts our business and financial results. On August 11, 2009, we, and several other GPOs, received a letter from Senators Charles Grassley, Herb Kohl and Bill Nelson requesting information concerning the different relationships between and among our GPO and its clients, distributors, manufacturers and other vendors and suppliers, and requesting certain information about the services the GPO performs and the payments it receives. On September 25, 2009, we and several other GPOs received a request for information from the Government Accountability Office (GAO), also concerning our GPO’s services and relationships with our clients. Subsequently, we, and other GPOs, received follow-up requests for additional information. We have fully complied with all of these requests. If we fail to comply with federal and state laws governing submission of false or fraudulent claims to government healthcare programs and financial relationships among healthcare providers, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or loss of eligibility to participate in government healthcare programs. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations designed to protect patients, governmental healthcare programs, and private health plans from fraudulent and abusive activities. These laws include anti-kickback restrictions and laws prohibiting the submission of false or fraudulent claims. These laws are complex and their application to our specific products, services and relationships may not be clear and may be applied to our business in ways that we do not anticipate. Federal and state regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and rules. From time to time we and others in the healthcare industry have received inquiries or subpoenas to produce documents in connection with such activities. We could be required to expend significant time and resources to comply with these requests, and the attention of our management team could be diverted to these efforts. Furthermore, if we are found to be in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, and we could be excluded from participating in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The occurrence of any of these events could significantly harm our business and financial condition. Provisions in Title XI of the Social Security Act, commonly referred to as the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibit the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for the referral of patients or arranging for the referral of patients, or in return for the recommendation, arrangement, purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered, in whole or in part, by a federal healthcare program such as Medicare or Medicaid. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value such as gifts, discounts, rebates, waiver of payments or providing anything at less than its fair market value. Many states have adopted similar prohibitions against kickbacks and other practices that are intended to induce referrals which are applicable to all patients regardless of whether the patient is covered under a governmental health program or private health plan. We attempt to scrutinize our business relationships and activities to comply with the federal anti-kickback statute and similar laws; and we attempt to structure our sales and group purchasing arrangements in a manner that is consistent with the requirements of applicable safe harbors to these laws. We cannot assure you, however, that our arrangements will be protected by such safe harbors or that such increased enforcement activities will not directly or indirectly have an adverse effect on our business financial condition or results of operations. Any 25 Table of Contents determination by a state or federal agency that any of our activities or those of our vendors or customers violate any of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, could require us to change or terminate some portions of or operations or business, could disqualify us from providing services to healthcare providers doing business with government programs and, thus, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business, particularly our Revenue Cycle Management segment, is also subject to numerous federal and state laws that forbid the submission or “causing the submission” of false or fraudulent information or the failure to disclose information in connection with the submission and payment of claims for reimbursement to Medicare, Medicaid, federal healthcare programs or private health plans. These laws and regulations may change rapidly, and it is frequently unclear how they apply to our business. Errors created by our products or consulting services that relate to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim or cost report information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Any failure of our products or services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in substantial civil or criminal liability, could adversely affect demand for our services, could invalidate all or portions of some of our customer contracts, could require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, could require us to refund portions of our services fees, could cause us to be disqualified from serving customers doing business with government payors and could have an adverse effect on our business. Any material changes in the political, economic or regulatory healthcare environment that affect the purchasing practices and operations of healthcare organizations, or lead to consolidation in the healthcare industry, could require us to modify our services or reduce the funds available to purchase our products and services. Our business, financial condition and results of operations depend upon conditions affecting the healthcare industry generally and hospitals and health systems particularly. Our ability to grow will depend upon the economic environment of the healthcare industry generally as well as our ability to increase the number of programs and services that we sell to our customers. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. Factors such as changes in reimbursement policies for healthcare expenses, consolidation in the healthcare industry, regulation, litigation, and general economic conditions affect the purchasing practices, operation and, ultimately, the operating funds of healthcare organizations. In particular, changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry, such as any increased regulation by governmental agencies of the purchase and sale of medical products, or restrictions on permissible discounts and other financial arrangements, could require us to make unplanned modifications of our products and services, or result in delays or cancellations of orders or reduce funds and demand for our products and services. Because of current macro-economic conditions including continued disruptions in the broader capital markets, the lingering effect of the weakened economy coupled with small reserves and thin operating margins, cash flow and access to credit can be problematic for many healthcare delivery organizations. While we believe we are well positioned through our product and service offerings to assist hospitals and health systems who are dealing with increasing and intense financial pressures, it is unclear what long-term effects these conditions will have on the healthcare industry and in turn on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in February 2009 the United States Congress enacted the HITECH Act, as part of ARRA. The HITECH Act requires that hospitals and health systems make investments in their clinical information systems, including the adoption of electronic medical records. While we believe that increased emphasis on electronic medical records by hospitals and health systems will also drive demand for SaaS-based tools, such as ours, to help rationalize and standardize patient and clinical data for efficient and accurate use, we cannot be certain that such demand will materialize nor can we be certain that we will be benefit from it. Further, federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system, including those recently initiated to counter the effects of the current economic turmoil, as well as, the healthcare reform legislation currently under consideration by the U.S. Congress. These programs and plans may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, create a 26 Table of Contents universal healthcare system, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise significantly change the environment in which healthcare industry providers currently operate. We do not know what effect, if any, such proposals may have on our business. Our customers are highly dependent on payments from third-party healthcare payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored programs, and reductions or changes in third-party reimbursement could adversely affect our customers and consequently our business. Our customers derive a substantial portion of their revenue from third-party private and governmental payors including Medicare, Medicaid and other government sponsored programs. Our sales and profitability depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage of and reimbursement for the products our customers purchase or otherwise obtain through us is available from governmental health programs, private health insurers, managed care plans and other third-party payors. These third-party payors exercise significant control over and increasingly use their enhanced bargaining power to secure discounted reimbursement rates and impose other requirements that may negatively impact our customers’ ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for products and services they purchase or otherwise obtain through us as a group purchasing member. If third-party payors do not approve products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse for them adequately, our customers may suffer adverse financial consequences which, in turn, may reduce the demand for and ability to purchase our products or services. In addition CMS, which administers the Medicare and federal aspects of state Medicaid programs, has issued complex rules requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to calculate and report drug pricing for multiple purposes, including the limiting of reimbursement for certain drugs. These rules generally exclude from the pricing calculation administrative fees paid by drug manufacturers to GPOs such as the company if the fees meet CMS’ “bona fide service fee” definition. There can be no assurance that CMS will continue to allow exclusion of GPO administrative fees from the pricing calculation, or that other efforts by payors to limit reimbursement for certain drugs will not have an adverse impact on our business. Further, we do not know what effect, if any, the healthcare reform legislation currently under consideration by the U.S. Congress will have on third-party reimbursement. Federal and state privacy and security laws may increase the costs of operation and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. We must comply with extensive federal and state requirements regarding the use, retention and security of patient healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations that have been issued under it, which we refer to collectively as HIPAA, contain substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals’ protected health information. These restrictions and requirements are set forth in the Privacy Rule and Security Rule portions of HIPAA. The HIPAA Privacy Rule prohibits a covered entity from using or disclosing an individual’s protected health information unless the use or disclosure is authorized by the individual or is specifically required or permitted under the Privacy Rule. The Privacy Rule imposes a complex system of requirements on covered entities for complying with this basic standard. Under the HIPAA Security Rule, covered entities must establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. The HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules have historically applied directly to covered entities, such as our customers who are healthcare providers that engage in HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions. Because some of our customers disclose protected health information to us so that we may use that information to provide certain consulting or other services to those customers, we are a “business associate” of those customers. In order to provide customers with services that involve the use or disclosure of protected health information, the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules require us to enter into business associate agreements with our customers. Such agreements must, among other things, provide adequate written assurances: • as to how we will use and disclose the protected health information; 27 Table of Contents • that we will implement reasonable administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information from misuse; • that we will enter into similar agreements with our agents and subcontractors that have access to the information; • that we will report security incidents and other inappropriate uses or disclosures of the information; and • that we will assist the covered entity with certain of its duties under the Privacy Rule. With the enactment of the HITECH Act, the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA have been modified and expanded. The HITECH Act applies certain of the HIPAA privacy and security requirements directly to business associates of covered entities. In other words, we must now directly comply with certain aspects of the Privacy and Security Rules, and are also subject to enforcement for a violation of HIPAA standards. Significantly, the HITECH Act also establishes new mandatory federal requirements for both covered entities and business associates regarding notification of breaches of security involving protected health information. Any failure or perception of failure of our products or services to meet HIPAA standards and related regulatory requirements could expose us to certain notification, penalty and/or enforcement risks and could adversely affect demand for our products and services, and force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to modify our products or services to address the privacy and security requirements of our customers and HIPAA. In addition to our obligations under HIPAA, most states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical information, and many states have adopted or are considering adopting further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, and data security breach notification requirements. These state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we are required to comply with them as well. We are unable to predict what changes to HIPAA or other federal or state laws or regulations might be made in the future or how those changes could affect our business or the associated costs of compliance. For example, the federal Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology, or ONCHIT, is coordinating the development of national standards for creating an interoperable health information technology infrastructure based on the widespread adoption of electronic health records in the healthcare sector. We are unable to predict what, if any, impact the creation of such standards will have on our products, services or compliance costs. Failure by us to comply with any of the federal and state standards regarding patient privacy, identity theft prevention and detection, and data security may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and in some circumstances, criminal penalties. In addition, such failure may injure our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain customers and attract new customers. If our customers who operate as not-for profit entities lose their tax-exempt status, those customers would suffer significant adverse tax consequences which, in turn, could adversely impact their ability to purchase products or services from us. There has been a trend across the United States among state tax authorities to challenge the tax exempt status of hospitals and other healthcare facilities claiming such status on the basis that they are operating as charitable and/or religious organizations. The outcome of these cases has been mixed with some facilities retaining their tax-exempt status while others have been denied the ability to continue operating under as not-for profit, tax-exempt entities under state law. In addition, many states have removed sales tax exemptions previously available to not-for-profit entities, and both the IRS and the United States Congress are investigating the practices of non-for profit hospitals. Those facilities denied tax exemptions could be subject to the imposition of tax penalties and assessments which could have a material adverse impact on their cash flow, financial strength and possibly ongoing viability. If the tax exempt status of any of our customers is revoked or compromised by new legislation or interpretation of existing legislation, that customer’s financial health could be adversely affected, which could adversely impact our sales and revenue. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership in Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is often unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly in response to the factors described above and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated changes in our or our competitors’ growth rates; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC and announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or by our competitors; • actions of our historical equity investors, including sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers; • any major change in our senior management team; • legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; • general economic, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to the healthcare industry; and • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the market price you paid to purchase your shares due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in the market as a whole or our operating performance or prospects. A limited number of stockholders have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Those affiliated with the Company beneficially own a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. The interests of our executive officers, directors and their affiliated entities may differ from the interests of the other stockholders. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. As to these matters and in similar situations, you may disagree with these stockholders as to whether the action opposed or supported by them is in the best interest of our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. 29 Table of Contents For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately a third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. Having a staggered board could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us through a proxy contest. Other provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or changes in management include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of, including voting, dividend and other special rights, and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A change of control may also impact employee benefit arrangements, which could make an acquisition more costly and could prevent it from going forward. For example, our option plans allow for all or a portion of the options granted under these plans to vest upon a change of control. Finally, upon any change in control, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility would have the right to require us to repay all of our outstanding obligations. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We do not intend to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable 30 Table of Contents 