ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common or preferred shares involves various risks, including the risk that an investor might lose its entire investment. The following discussion concerns the material risks associated with our business. These risks are interrelated and should be considered collectively. The risks described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not identified below, may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our security holders. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties Real estate investments are inherently risky, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Real estate investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. If we acquire or develop properties and they do not generate sufficient operating cash flow to meet operating expenses, including debt service, capital expenditures and tenant improvements, our results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our security holders will be materially adversely affected. Income from properties may be adversely affected by, among other things: • downturns in the national, regional and local economic conditions (particularly in the greater Washington, D.C. region, where our properties are located); • declines in the financial condition of our tenants (including tenant bankruptcies) and our ability to collect rents from our tenants; • decreases in rent and/or occupancy rates due to competition, oversupply, adverse changes to the areas surrounding our properties, or other factors; • increases in operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance premiums, site maintenance (including snow removal costs) and utilities; • vacancies and the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space, or other significant capital expenditures; • reduced capital investment in or demand for real estate in the future; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions and laws; • terrorist acts or acts of war, which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; • decreases in the underlying value of our real estate; • changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; and • changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing real estate usage, zoning and taxes. All of our properties are located in the greater Washington D.C. region, making us vulnerable to changes in economic, regulatory or other conditions in that region that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. All of our properties are located in the greater Washington D.C. region, exposing us to greater risks than if we owned properties in multiple geographic regions. Economic conditions in the greater Washington D.C. region may significantly affect the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. A decline in occupancy and rental rates, in turn, may significantly adversely affect our profitability and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations. Further, the economic condition of the region may also depend on one or more industries and, therefore, an economic downturn in one of these industry sectors may adversely affect our performance. For example, the U.S. Government, which has a large presence in our markets, accounted for 12% of our total annualized cash basis rent as of December 31, 2013, and the U.S. Government combined with government contractors accounted for 25% of our total annualized cash basis rent as of December 31, 2013. We are therefore directly affected by decreases in federal government spending (either directly through the potential loss of a U.S. Government tenant or indirectly if the businesses of tenants that contract with the U.S. Government are negatively impacted). In particular, the office market in the Washington, 10 Table of Contents D.C. metropolitan area has been negatively impacted by uncertainty regarding the potential for significant reductions in spending by the U.S. Government. In addition to actual economic conditions, investor perception of risks associated with real estate in the Washington D.C. metropolitan area as a result of its perceived dependence on the U.S. Government, and the impact of sequestration, may make potential investors less likely to invest in our shares, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. We may also be subject to changes in the region’s regulatory environment (such as increases in real estate and other taxes, costs of complying with government regulations or increased regulation and other factors) or other adverse conditions or events (such as natural disasters). Thus, adverse developments and/or conditions in the greater Washington D.C. region could reduce demand for space, impact the credit-worthiness of our tenants or force our tenants to curtail operations, which could impair their ability to meet their rent obligations to us and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A decrease in federal government spending, or the threat thereof, as a result of sequestration cuts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow, and could cause an impairment of the value of some of our properties. The U.S. Government accounted for 12% of our total annualized cash basis rent as of December 31, 2013, and the U.S. Government combined with government contractors accounted for 25% of our total annualized cash basis rent as of December 31, 2013. A significant reduction in federal government spending could affect the ability of these tenants to fulfill lease obligations or decrease the likelihood that they will renew their leases with us. Further, economic conditions in the greater Washington, D.C. region, particularly the Washington, D.C. and Norfolk, VA metropolitan areas, are significantly dependent upon the level of federal government spending in the region, and uncertainty regarding the potential for future reduction in government spending could also decrease or delay leasing activity from the U.S. Government and government contractors. Moreover, the Budget Control Act, which was passed in 2011 and imposed caps on the federal budget in order to achieve targeted spending levels over the 2013-2021 fiscal years (commonly referred to as “sequestration”), has fueled further uncertainty regarding future government spending reductions, particularly in light of subsequent negotiations in Congress at the end of 2012. The reductions in U.S. federal government spending imposed by the Budget Control Act went into effect on March 1, 2013, which lead to significant reductions in U.S. federal government spending in 2013, with similar cuts scheduled for years 2014 through 2021. Overall, the sequester imposed by the Budget Control Act lowers spending by a total of approximately $1.1 trillion versus pre-sequester levels over the period from 2013 to 2021. As a result of the scheduled reductions in U.S. federal government spending, there could be negative economic changes in our region, which could adversely impact the ability of our tenants to perform their financial obligations under our leases or decrease the likelihood of their lease renewal. In addition, some of our leases with the U.S. Government are for relatively short terms or provide for early termination rights, including termination for convenience or in the event of a budget shortfall. Further, on July 31, 2003, the United States Department of Defense issued the Unified Facilities Criteria (the “UFC”), which establish minimum antiterrorism standards for the design and construction of new and existing buildings leased by the departments and agencies of the Department of Defense. The loss of the federal government as a tenant resulting from reductions in federal government spending, exercise of the government’s contractual termination rights, our inability to comply with the UFC standards or for any other reason would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could cause the value of our affected properties to be impaired. A reduction or elimination of rent from the U.S. Government or other significant tenants would also materially reduce our cash flow and materially adversely affect our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our security holders. We intend to increase the size of our portfolio through acquisitions and developments, which initially may be dilutive and/or may not produce the returns that we expect, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. Our long-term business strategy contemplates expansion through acquisitions and developments, which initially may be dilutive to our net income. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates, as well as expected development costs and leasing costs. We have acquired, and in the future may acquire, properties not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations of such properties may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such properties until they are more fully leased at favorable rental rates. Moreover, operating expenses related to acquired properties may be greater than anticipated, particularly if we provide tenant improvements or other concessions or additional services in order to maintain or attract new tenants. We also may experience unanticipated costs or difficulties integrating newly acquired properties into our existing portfolio or hiring and retaining sufficient operational staff to manage such properties. If our estimated return on investment for the property proves to be inaccurate and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we projected in originally analyzing the investment (including, without limitation, as a result of tenant bankruptcies, increased tenant improvements and other concessions, our inability to collect rents and higher than anticipated operating costs), thereby having a material adverse effect on our results of operations. This risk may be particularly pronounced for properties placed into 11 Table of Contents development or acquired shortly before the recent economic downturn, where we estimated occupancy and rental rates without the benefit of knowing how those assumptions might be impacted by the changing economic conditions that followed. For example, 440 First Street, NW, which was 100% vacant at the time of acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2010, was 14.2% occupied and 18.3% leased at December 31, 2013. In addition, when we acquire certain properties that are significantly under-leased, we often plan to reposition or redevelop them with the goal of increasing profitability. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping such properties may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Moreover, we may be unsuccessful in leasing up such properties after repositioning or redeveloping them and if one or more of these new properties do not perform as expected, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We compete with other parties for tenants and property acquisitions. Our long-term business strategy contemplates expansion through acquisitions. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive, and we compete with substantially larger companies, including substantially larger REITs and institutional investment funds, which may have better access to lower cost capital for the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. As a result, we may not be able or have the opportunity to make suitable investments on favorable terms in the future, which may impede our growth and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, competition for acquisitions may significantly increase the purchase price and/or require us to, among other things, make concessions to sellers and/or agree to higher non-refundable deposits, which could require us to agree to acquisition terms less favorable to us. We also face significant competition for tenants in our properties from owners and operators of business park and office properties that may be more willing to make space available to prospective tenants at lower prices and with greater tenant improvements and other concessions than comparable spaces in our properties, especially in difficult economic times. Thus, competition could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge and increase the tenant improvements and other concessions that we offer, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Acquired properties may expose us to unknown liabilities. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, against the prior owners or other third parties with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle or contest it, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to acquired properties might include: • liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed or undiscovered environmental contamination; • claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties; • liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. We may not be able to access adequate cash to fund our business or growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our business requires access to adequate cash to finance our operations, distributions, capital expenditures, debt service obligations, development and redevelopment costs and property acquisition costs, if any, and to refinance or repay maturing debt. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to fund our business, particularly if we are unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire according to expectations. This risk may be even more pronounced given the ongoing challenges and uncertainties in the current economic environment. Moreover, we rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain the financing on favorable terms, in the time period we desire, or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: • general market conditions; • the market’s view of the quality of our assets; • the market’s perception of our growth potential; • our current debt levels; 12 Table of Contents • our current and expected future earnings; • our cash flow and cash distributions; and • the market price of our common shares. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our principal and interest obligations or make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility depends on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facility to meet their funding commitment to us. If our lenders are not able to meet their funding commitment to us, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our Storey Park redevelopment project is subject to a number of risks, including those related to financing, leasing, development and construction. In addition, if we are not successful in finding an additional capital partner for the redevelopment of Storey Park, we will be carrying a significant investment in a non-income producing property, which could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. The Greyhound lease at Storey Park terminated in August 2013 and we placed the property into development. Although we are exploring options related to this site, including bringing in an additional capital partner, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in finding an additional capital partner for the redevelopment project. Additionally, we may be unable to engage an additional joint venture capital partner for the redevelopment of Storey Park without the consent of our current joint venture partner for that property. If we are unable to find an additional capital partner, but we find a key tenant willing to commit to the property, we may consider undertaking the redevelopment project without an additional capital partner. Regardless of whether we find an additional capital partner, we may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, the key tenant may fail to complete its obligations to us, or we may be unable to successfully redevelop the property within the time or cost we expect. Each of these risks, if realized, could adversely affect our financial condition and, in the event we elect to undertake the redevelopment project without an additional capital partner, we would bear the entirety of these risks and related costs. Further, until we find an additional capital partner for the project, Storey Park is a sizable non-income producing property and we are required to cover interest payments on the debt secured by the property and other costs related to owning the property from other sources, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flow. Development and construction risks could materially adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. Our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects; • we may incur construction costs for a property that exceed our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; • we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all, especially with respect to large scale developments and redevelopments, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities; and • we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our shareholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Any of these conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. Our strategic shift and decision to focus on office properties in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan region, together with our disposition of our industrial portfolio, is subject to a number of risks, including that such disposition reduced the size of our overall portfolio and lead to a further concentration of our portfolio in office properties. Our strategic and capital plan called for the disposition of the majority of our industrial properties in a portfolio sale, and continued focus on office properties in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan region. At that time, the industrial portfolio represented 16% of the total revenues of our portfolio. We consummated the sale of our industrial portfolio in June 2013. As 13 Table of Contents such, the size of our overall portfolio has been significantly reduced, and therefore any adverse developments at any one of our remaining properties may have a greater negative impact on our results of operations. Although we intend to acquire additional office properties in the future, we face significant competition for acquisitions in the office market and we may not be able or have the opportunity to make suitable investments on favorable terms. See “—We compete with other parties for tenants and property acquisitions.” As such, the resulting decrease in our net income attributable to the industrial properties may not be completely offset by income from the reinvestment of disposition proceeds. In addition, a further concentration of our portfolio in office properties exposes us to the risk of a downturn in the office market to a greater extent than if our portfolio remained more diversified in office and industrial properties. One aspect of our strategic and capital plan includes growing our portfolio of high-quality office properties in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan region, and disposing of those properties that are no longer a strategic fit (such as our industrial portfolio). If the proceeds of our capital recycling plan are not what we expect, or if we cannot responsibly and timely deploy the proceeds, there would be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. One aspect of our strategic and capital plan includes growing our portfolio of high-quality office properties in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan region, and disposing of those properties that are no longer a strategic fit (such as our industrial portfolio). Specifically, one element of our new strategic and capital plan is may involve capital recycling through the disposition of properties that are no longer a strategic fit, properties in submarkets where we do not have asset concentration or operating efficiencies, and/or properties where we believe we cannot further maximize value. We then intend to use the proceeds generated from the any potential disposition of those properties to acquire additional high-quality office properties in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan region. We cannot provide no assure assurance you that we will be able to dispose of properties under our capital recycling plan for the amounts of proceeds we expect, or at all. In addition, if we are able to dispose of those properties on attractive terms, we cannot provide no assure assurance you that we will be able to use the capital in a timely or more efficient manner. As such, we may not be able to adequately time any decrease in revenues from the sale of properties with a corresponding increase in revenues associated with the acquisition of properties. The failure to dispose of properties under our capital recycling plan, or to timely and more efficiently apply the proceeds from any disposition of properties to attractive acquisition opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our debt level may have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and our ability to pursue growth through acquisitions and development projects. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $673.6 million of outstanding indebtedness, consisting principally of our mortgage debt, term loans and amounts outstanding under our credit facility. In addition, we will incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. Our use of debt financing creates risks, including risks that: • our cash flow will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; • we will be unable to refinance some or all of our indebtedness or that any refinancing will not be on terms as favorable as those of the existing indebtedness; • required debt payments will not be reduced if the economic performance of any property declines; • debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our security holders and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; • most of our secured debt obligations require the lender to be made whole to the extent we decide to pay off the debt prior to the maturity date; and • any default on our indebtedness, including as a result of a failure to maintain certain financial and operating covenants in our credit facility and term loans, could result in acceleration of those obligations and possible cross defaults under other indebtedness and/or loss of property to foreclosure. If the economic performance of any of our properties declines, our ability to make debt service payments would be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, we may lose that property to lender foreclosure with a resulting loss of income and asset value. An increase in our leverage levels may make it difficult to obtain additional financing based on our current portfolio or to refinance existing debt on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain additional financing could impede our ability to grow and develop our business through, among other things, acquisitions and developments, and a failure to refinance our existing debt as it matures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our leverage levels also could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally and may adversely affect the market price of our securities if an investment in our common or preferred shares is perceived to be more risky than an investment in our peers. 14 Table of Contents Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan contain certain and varying restrictions on the amount of debt we are allowed to incur and other restrictions and requirements on our operations (including, among other things, requirements to maintain specified coverage ratios and other financial covenants, and limitations on our ability to make distributions, enter into joint ventures, develop properties and engage in certain business combination transactions). See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” These restrictions, particularly if we are at or near the required ratios or thresholds, could prevent or inhibit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and to pursue some business initiatives or effect certain transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our company, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our continued ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to compliance with these financial and operating covenants and our failure to comply with such covenants could cause a default under the credit facility. Although we were in compliance with all of the financial and operating covenants of our outstanding debt agreements as of December 31, 2013, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to comply with these covenants in future periods. Our debt agreements also contain cross-default provisions that would be triggered if we are in default under other loans in excess of certain amounts. In the event of a default, the lenders could accelerate the timing of payments under the debt obligations and we may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources, which may not be available to us on attractive terms, or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may be unable to renew expiring leases or re-lease vacant space on a timely basis or on attractive terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Approximately 9%, 9% and 10% of our annualized cash basis rent is scheduled to expire in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Current tenants may not renew their leases upon the expiration of their terms and may attempt to terminate their leases prior to the expiration of their current terms. For example, as discussed in the risk factor titled “A decrease in federal government spending, or the threat thereof, as a result of sequestration cuts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow, and could cause an impairment of the value of some of our properties”, our leases with the U.S. Government include favorable tenant termination provisions. If non-renewals or terminations occur, we may not be able to locate qualified replacement tenants and, as a result, we could lose a significant source of revenue while remaining responsible for the payment of our financial obligations. Moreover, the terms of a renewal or new lease, including the amount of rent, may be less favorable to us than the current lease terms, or we may be forced to provide tenant improvements at our expense or provide other concessions or additional services to maintain or attract tenants. Any of these factors could cause a decline in lease revenue or an increase in operating expenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. If recent adverse global market and economic conditions worsen or do not fully recover, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Overall financial market and economic conditions have been challenging in recent years, beginning with the credit crisis and recession that began in 2008. Challenging economic conditions persisted through 2013, including implementation of significant reductions in spending by the U.S. Government, referred to as sequestration, volatility in the debt and equity markets and uncertainty surrounding U.S. federal budget negotiations. These conditions, which could continue or worsen, combined with high unemployment and residential and commercial real estate markets that have been slow to recover, among other things, have contributed to ongoing market volatility and uncertain expectations for the U.S. and other economies. We cannot predict whether these conditions will persist or deteriorate further. If these conditions worsen or do not fully recover, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our tenants, to replace or renew maturing liabilities on a timely basis, access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements and may result in material adverse effects on our and our tenants’ financial condition and results of operations. In particular, if our tenants’ businesses or ability to obtain financing deteriorates further, they may be unable to pay rent to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants, which may declare bankruptcy or otherwise fail to make lease payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants. We cannot assure you that our tenants will not default on their leases and fail to make rental payments to us. In particular, disruptions in the financial and credit markets, local economic conditions and other factors affecting the industries in which our tenants operate may affect our tenants’ ability to obtain financing to operate their businesses or continue to profitability execute their business plans. This, in turn, may cause our tenants to be unable to meet their financial obligations, including making rental payments to us, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. A tenant in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rent and interest during the bankruptcy proceeding and may reject 15 Table of Contents the lease. In the event of the tenant’s breach of its obligations to us or its rejection of the lease in bankruptcy proceedings, we may be unable to locate a replacement tenant in a timely manner or on comparable or better terms. The loss of rental revenues from any of our larger tenants, a number of our smaller tenants or any combination thereof, combined with our inability to replace such tenants on a timely basis, may materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. A majority of our tenants hold leases covering less than 10,000 square feet. Many of these tenants are small companies with nominal net worth and, therefore, may be challenged in operating their businesses during economic downturns. In addition, certain of our properties are, and may be in the future be, substantially leased to a single tenant and, therefore, such property’s operating performance and our ability to service the property’s debt is particularly exposed to the economic condition of the tenant. The loss of rental revenues from any of our larger tenants or a number of our smaller tenants may materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Our variable rate debt subjects us to interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2013, we had an unsecured revolving credit facility, a $300.0 million unsecured term loan, and a $21.7 million construction loan and certain other debt, some of which is unhedged, that bears interest at a variable rate. In addition, we may incur additional variable rate debt in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had $442.7 million of variable rate debt, of which, $350.0 million was hedged through twelve interest rate swap agreements. On January 15, 2014, an interest rate swap agreement that fixed LIBOR on $50.0 million of our variable rate debt expired. Our $442.7 million of variable rate debt includes our $22.0 million mortgage loan that encumbers Storey Park, which bears interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 2.75%, with a 5.0% floor. One-month LIBOR was 0.17% at December 31, 2013. Increases in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, if not hedged effectively or at all, which would adversely affect net earnings and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to our security holders. For example, if market rates of interest on our unhedged variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2013 increased by 1%, or 100 basis points, the increase in interest expense on our existing unhedged variable rate debt would decrease future earnings and cash flow by approximately $0.7 million annually. We have and may continue to engage in hedging transactions, which can limit our gains and increase exposure to losses. We have and may continue to enter into hedging transactions to attempt to protect us from the effects of interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt, or in some cases, prior to a proposed debt issuance. Our hedging transactions may include interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, or other interest rate exchange contracts. Hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Moreover, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us and could adversely affect us because, among other things: • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value. Such downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our equity. Hedging involves risk and typically involves costs, including transaction costs that may reduce our overall returns on our investments. These costs increase as the period covered by the hedging increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. These costs will also limit the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. We generally intend to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. REIT qualification rules may limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions by, among other things, requiring us to limit our income from hedges. If we are unable to hedge effectively because of the REIT rules, we will face greater interest rate exposure. Failure to succeed in new markets may limit our growth and/or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may make selected acquisitions outside our current geographic market from time to time as appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience is in the greater Washington D.C. region, and we may not be able to operate successfully in other market areas where we have limited or no experience. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets. These risks include, among others: 16 Table of Contents • a lack of market knowledge and understanding of the local economies; • an inability to identify promising acquisition or development opportunities; • an inability to identify and cultivate relationships that, similar to our relationships in the greater Washington D.C. region, are important to successfully effecting our business plan; • an inability to employ construction trades people; and • a lack of familiarity with local government and permitting procedures. Any of these factors could adversely affect the profitability of projects outside our current markets and limit the success of our acquisition and development strategy. If our acquisition and development strategy is negatively affected, our growth may be impeded and our results of operations materially adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition and the market price of our securities. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. As previously disclosed, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 relating to our monitoring and oversight of compliance with financial covenants under our debt agreements. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we remediated the material weakness as of December 31, 2012, we cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will not be subject to additional material weaknesses in the future. Any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could prevent us from accurately reporting our results of operations, result in material misstatements in our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. This could prevent or inhibit our ability to access third party sources of capital, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, thereby adversely affecting the perception of our business and the market price of our securities. We have been informed that the SEC has initiated an informal inquiry relating to the matters that were the subject of our Internal Investigation regarding the material weakness previously identified in the our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. As previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, we have been informed that the SEC has initiated an informal inquiry relating to the matters that were the subject of our Internal Investigation regarding the material weakness previously identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. We have been, and intend to continue, voluntarily cooperating fully with the SEC. We cannot reasonably estimate the timing, scope or outcome of this informal inquiry and are unable to predict whether a formal investigation will be initiated or what consequences any further investigation may have on us. The informal inquiry, or any formal investigation that may be initiated, may result in the incurrence of significant legal expense, both directly and as the result of our indemnification obligations to our trustees and current and former employees. In addition, the informal inquiry, or any formal investigation that may be initiated, may divert management’s attention from our ordinary business operations and may limit our ability to obtain financing to fund our on-going operating requirements. Adverse findings by the SEC or the incurrence of costs, fees, fines or penalties that are not reimbursed by insurance policies, in connection with or as a result of this informal inquiry (or any formal investigation that may be initiated), could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our mezzanine loan investments are subject to significant risks, and losses related to these investments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In 2010 and 2011, we structured separate investments in two Washington, D.C. office properties in the form of loans to the owners of the property: a $25.0 million loan that bore interest at a rate of 12.5% per annum, is interest only and matures on April 1, 2017; and a $30.0 million loan that bears interest at a rate of 9.0% per annum that matures on May 1, 2016 and required monthly interest-only payments until May 2013, at which time the loan began requiring monthly principal and interest payments through its maturity date. On January 10, 2014, we amended and restated the $25.0 million mezzanine loan to increase the 17 Table of Contents outstanding balance to $34.0 million, and reduced the fixed interest rate from 12.5% to 9.75%. Each loan is secured by a portion of the owners’ interest in the respective property and is effectively subordinate to a senior mortgage loan on the property. We may engage in additional lending activities in the future, including mezzanine financing activities. These types of loans involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage lending secured by income-producing real property, because the loan may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements between the holder of the mortgage loan and us, as the mezzanine lender, may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, even if we are able to foreclose on the underlying collateral following a default on a mezzanine loan, we would be substituted for the defaulting borrower and, to the extent income generated on the underlying property is insufficient to meet outstanding debt obligations on the property, may need to commit substantial additional capital to stabilize the property and prevent additional defaults to lenders with existing liens on the property. Significant losses related to mezzanine loans could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Under some of our leases, tenants have the right to terminate prior to the scheduled expiration of the lease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Some leases at our properties provide tenants with the right to terminate prior to the scheduled expiration of the lease. If a tenant terminates its lease with us prior to the expiration of the term, we may be unable to re-lease that space on as favorable terms, or at all, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Property owned through joint ventures, or in limited liability companies and partnerships in which we are not the sole equity holder, may limit our ability to act exclusively in our interests. We have, and may in the future, make investments through partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures, some of which may be significant in size. In particular, during 2010 and 2011, we entered a number of joint ventures in connection with our acquisition and development of various real estate assets. Partnership, limited liability company or joint venture investments may involve various risks, including the following: • our partners or co-members might become bankrupt (in which event we and any other remaining general partners or co-members would generally remain liable for the liabilities of the partnership or joint venture); • our partners or co-members might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • our partners or co-members may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies, or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; • our partners or co-members may be in a position to withhold consent necessary for us take certain actions with respect to our jointly owned investments, including rights with respect to development; and • agreements governing joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships often contain restrictions on the transfer of a member’s or partner’s interest or “buy-sell” or other provisions that may result in a purchase or sale of the interest at a disadvantageous time or on disadvantageous terms. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions with respect to, and the market price of, our securities. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to adverse changes in the performance of such properties may be limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including those described in the risk factor above under “Real estate investments are inherently risky, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.” We cannot predict whether we 18 Table of Contents will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Moreover, the REIT rules governing property sales and agreements that we may enter into with joint venture partners or contributors to our operating partnership not to sell certain properties for a period of time may interfere with our ability to dispose of properties on a timely basis without incurring significant additional costs. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. We may also acquire properties that are subject to mortgage loans that may limit our ability to sell those properties prior to the applicable loan’s maturity. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Liabilities under environmental laws for contamination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to liability created under existing or future federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations for contamination. An owner or operator of real property can face strict, joint and several liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances, including petroleum-based products at, on, under or from the property. Similarly, a former owner or operator of real property can face the same liability for the disposal of hazardous substances that occurred during the time of ownership or operation. We may face liability regardless of: • our lack of knowledge of the contamination; • the extent of the contamination; • the timing of the release of the contamination; or • whether or not we caused the contamination. Environmental liability for contamination may include the following, without limitation: investigation and feasibility study costs, remediation costs, litigation costs, oversight costs, monitoring costs, institutional control costs, penalties from state and federal agencies, and third-party claims. Moreover, operations on-site may be required to be suspended until certain environmental contamination is remediated and/or permits are received and environmental laws can impose permanent restrictions on the manner in which a property may be used depending on the extent and nature of the contamination. This may result in a default of the terms of the lease entered into with our tenants. Environmental laws also may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances at, on, under or from a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property or borrow using the property as collateral, thus harming our financial condition. There may be environmental liabilities associated with our properties of which we are unaware. For example, some of our properties contain, or may have contained in the past, underground tanks for the storage of hazardous substances, petroleum-based or waste products, or some of our properties have been used, or may have been used, historically to conduct industrial operations, and any of these circumstances could create a potential for release of hazardous substances. Such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Non-compliance with environmental laws at our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. Non-compliance with these environmental laws could subject us or our tenants to liability and changes in these laws could increase the potential costs of compliance or increase liability for noncompliance. Although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we could nonetheless be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by our tenants, and we cannot be sure that our tenants would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. Moreover, these environmental liabilities could affect our tenants’ ability to make rental payments to us. Non-compliance with environmental laws at our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our security holders. 19 Table of Contents Liabilities arising from the presence of hazardous building materials at our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. As the owner or operator of real property, we may also incur liability based on various building conditions. For example, buildings and other structures on properties that we currently own or operate or those we acquire or operate in the future contain, may contain, or may have contained, asbestos-containing material, or ACM. Environmental, health and safety laws require that ACM be properly managed and maintained and may impose fines or penalties on owners, operators or employers for non-compliance with those requirements. These requirements include special precautions, such as removal, abatement or air monitoring, if ACM would be disturbed during maintenance, renovation or demolition of a building, potentially resulting in substantial costs. In addition, we may be subject to liability for personal injury or property damage sustained as a result of exposure to ACM or releases of ACM into the environment. As a result, such liabilities arising from the presence of ACM or other hazardous building materials at our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold or suffer from other indoor air quality issues, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects, property damage or remediation costs and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Indoor air quality issues can also stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contamination from indoor or outdoor sources, and other biological contaminants such as pollen, viruses and bacteria. Concern about indoor exposure to airborne toxins or irritants, including mold, has been increasing as exposure to these airborne contaminants have been alleged to cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold or other airborne contaminants from the affected property or to increase ventilation. In addition, the presence of significant mold or other airborne contaminants could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants, and others if property damage or health concerns arise. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that materially adversely impact our cash flow. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines by the U.S. Government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under our leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to security holders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to make distributions to our security holders. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Under the terms and conditions of most of the leases currently in force on our properties, our tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and full replacement value property damage insurance policies. However, our largest tenant, the federal government, is not required to maintain property insurance at all. We have obtained comprehensive liability, casualty, earthquake, flood and rental loss insurance policies on our properties. All of these policies may, depending on the nature of the loss, involve 20 Table of Contents substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In addition, we cannot assure you that our tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market on which our securities trade, the markets in which we operate, our business and our results of operations. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our business and our results of operations. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. In particular, we may be directly exposed in Washington, D.C., a large metropolitan area that has been, and may be in the future, a target of actual or threatened terrorism attacks. The terrorism insurance that we obtain may not be sufficient to cover loss for damages to our properties as a result of terrorist attacks. In addition, certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable and others would not be covered by our current terrorism insurance. Additional terrorism insurance may not be available at a reasonable price or at all. If the properties in which we invest are unable to obtain sufficient and affordable insurance coverage, the value of those investments could decline, and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of an investment. The United States may enter into armed conflicts in the future. The consequences of any armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Any of these events could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in a continuation of the current economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our security holders, and may adversely affect and/or result in volatility in the market price for our securities. Further, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, enacted in 2002, provides a government reinsurance program in case of large-scale terrorist attacks. TRIA is currently set to expire on December 31, 2014. If TRIA is not renewed, we may not be able to purchase adequate insurance protection against future terrorist attacks at a reasonable price or at all and, in the event of such attack, any costs associated with recovery from the attack would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We face risks associated with security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of our information technology (IT) networks and related systems. We face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our IT networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Our IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption involving our IT networks and related systems could: • disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or those of certain of our tenants; • result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants, missed reporting deadlines and/or missed permitting deadlines; 21 Table of Contents • result in our inability to properly monitor our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT; • result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others, which others could use to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes; • result in our inability to maintain the building systems relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; • require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; • subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits, penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or • damage our reputation among our tenants and investors generally. Any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions to our security holders. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite system redundancy and the implementation of security measures for our IT networks and related systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication failures. We rely on our IT networks and related systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and keeping of records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants and lease data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing confidential tenant information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our IT networks and related systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Further, we are dependent on our personnel and, beyond standard emergency procedures in our headquarters office building, we do not have a formal disaster recovery plan in place to assist our employees, or to facilitate their maintaining continuity of operations after events such as energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication failures. As such, any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face risks associated with our tenants being designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or OFAC, maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned, or Prohibited Persons. OFAC regulations and other laws prohibit conducting business or engaging in transactions with Prohibited Persons. Certain of our loan and other agreements may require us to comply with these OFAC requirements. If a tenant or other party with whom we contract is placed on the OFAC list, we may be required by the OFAC requirements to terminate the lease or other agreement. Any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or a damage claim by the other party that the termination was wrongful. Rising energy costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Electricity and natural gas, the most common sources of energy used by commercial buildings, are subject to significant price volatility. In recent years, energy costs, including energy generated by natural gas and electricity, have fluctuated significantly. Some of our properties may be subject to leases that require our tenants to pay all utility costs while other leases may provide that tenants will reimburse us for utility costs in excess of a base year amount. It is possible that some or all of our tenants will not fulfill their lease obligations and reimburse us for their share of any significant energy rate increases and that we will not be able to retain or replace our tenants if energy price fluctuations continue. Also, to the extent under a lease we agree to pay for such costs, rising energy prices could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event of a change in control of the Company and certain of our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits if their employment is terminated without cause or not renewed, which could prevent or deter a change in control of the Company. We have entered into employment agreements with two of our executive officers, including Douglas J. Donatelli and Nicholas R. Smith, that provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends under certain circumstances following a change in control of the Company, terminated without cause, or if the executive officer resigns for “good reason” as defined in the 22 Table of Contents employment agreements. In addition, Andrew P. Blocher, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has an agreement with the Company that provides him with severance benefits if he is terminated by the Company without cause or if he resigns for good reason within 12 months of a change in control of the Company. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of the Company and thereby prevent or deter a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for our securities or otherwise be in the interests of our security holders. We may experience conflicts of interest with several of our executive officers relating to their ownership of units of our Operating Partnership. Several of our executive officers may have conflicting duties because, in their capacities as our executive officers, they have a duty to the Company and its shareholders, and in the Company’s capacity as general partner of our Operating Partnership, they have a fiduciary duty to the limited partners, and some executive officers are themselves limited partners and own a significant number of units of limited partner interest in our Operating Partnership. Conflicts may arise when the interests of our shareholders and the limited partners of our Operating Partnership diverge, particularly in circumstances in which there may be an adverse tax consequence to the limited partners, such as upon the sale of assets or the repayment of indebtedness. These conflicts of interest could lead to decisions that are not in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. We depend on key personnel, particularly Douglas J. Donatelli, with long-standing business relationships, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully and have other negative implications under certain of our indebtedness. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our senior management team, including Douglas J. Donatelli. In particular, the extent and nature of the relationships that Mr. Donatelli has developed in the real estate community in our markets is critically important to the success of our business. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Donatelli and one of our other executive officers, there is no guarantee that Mr. Donatelli or our other key executive officers will remain employed with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team, particularly Mr. Donatelli, would harm our business and prospects. Further, loss of a member of our senior management team could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. One of our trustees may have conflicts of interest with our Company. One of our Company’s trustees, Terry L. Stevens, currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Highwoods Properties, Inc., a fully integrated, North Carolina-based REIT that owns, leases, manages, develops and constructs office and retail properties. As a result, conflicts may arise if we and Highwoods Properties, Inc. compete in the same markets for properties, tenants, personnel and other services. Our rights and the rights of our security holders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Maryland law generally provides that a trustee has no liability for actions taken as a trustee, but may not be relieved of any liability to the company or its security holders for actions taken in bad faith, with willful misfeasance, gross negligence or reckless disregard for his or her duties. Our amended and restated declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify, and to pay or reimburse reasonable expenses to, our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers for money damages, except as otherwise prohibited by Maryland law or for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment or other final adjudication based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. As a result, we and our security holders may have more limited rights against our trustees than might otherwise exist. Our amended and restated bylaws require us to indemnify each trustee or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers. 23 Table of Contents Our Series A Preferred Shares have, and future issuances of our preferred shares may have, terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. We have 6.4 million shares of our Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Shares issued and outstanding. Our Series A Preferred Shares have certain conversion and redemption features that could be triggered upon a change of control, which may make it more difficult for or discourage a party from taking over our company. In addition, our declaration of trust permits our board of trustees to issue up to 50 million preferred shares, issuable in one or more classes or series. Our board of trustees may increase the number of preferred shares authorized by our declaration of trust without shareholder approval. Our board of trustees may also classify or reclassify any unissued preferred shares and establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote, to participate in earnings and to convert into securities) of any such preferred shares, which rights may be superior to those of our common shares. Thus, in addition to our Series A Preferred Shares, our board of trustees could authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of the common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price of our common shares. Our ownership limitations may restrict business combination opportunities. To maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or under applicable attribution rules, by five or fewer individuals (as defined to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year. To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits direct or indirect beneficial ownership (as defined under the Code) by any person of (i) more than 8.75% of the number or value of our outstanding common shares or (ii) more than 8.75% of the value of our outstanding shares of all classes. Generally, shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. Our declaration of trust has created an ownership limitation for the group comprised of Louis T. Donatelli, Douglas J. Donatelli and certain related persons, which prohibits such group from acquiring direct or indirect ownership (as defined under the Code) of (i) more than 14.9% of the number or value of our outstanding common shares or (ii) more than 14.9% of the value of all of our outstanding shares of all classes. In addition, pursuant to the Articles Supplementary setting forth the terms of our Series A Preferred Shares, no person may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than 9.8% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our Series A Preferred Shares. Unless the applicable ownership limitation is waived by our board of trustees prior to transfer, any transfer of our shares that would violate the ownership limitation will be null and void, and the intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. Shares that would otherwise be held in violation of the ownership limit will be designated as “shares-in-trust” and transferred automatically to a trust effective on the day before the purported transfer or other event giving rise to such excess ownership. The beneficiary of the trust will be one or more charitable organizations named by us. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price or that such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make our common shares an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of shares that would violate the ownership limitation provisions. Our board of trustees may change our investment and operational policies and practices without a vote of our security holders, which limits your control of our policies and practices. Our major policies, including our policies and practices with respect to investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions, are determined by our board of trustees. Although we have no present intention to do so, our board of trustees may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our security holders. Accordingly, our security holders have limited control over changes in our policies. Our declaration of trust and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we or our Operating Partnership may incur. If we become highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and harm our financial condition. Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management. Our declaration of trust provides that a trustee may be removed, with or without cause, only upon the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding common shares. Vacancies may be filled by the board of trustees. This requirement makes it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees. 24 Table of Contents Our bylaws may only be amended by our board of trustees, which could limit your control of certain aspects of our corporate governance. Our board of trustees has the sole authority to amend our bylaws. Thus, the board is able to amend the bylaws in a way that may be detrimental to your interests. Maryland law may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Maryland law provides broad discretion to our board of trustees with respect to their duties as trustees in considering a change in control of our Company, including that our board is subject to no greater level of scrutiny in considering a change in control transaction than with respect to any other act by our board. The Maryland Business Combination Act restricts mergers and other business combinations between our Company and an interested shareholder for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and thereafter imposes special shareholder voting requirements on these combinations. An “interested shareholder” is defined as any person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our common shares and also includes any of our affiliates or associates that, at any time within the two year period prior to the date of a proposed merger or other business combination, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting power. Additionally, the “control shares” provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, are applicable to us as if we were a corporation. These provisions eliminate the voting rights of issued and outstanding shares acquired in quantities so as to constitute “control shares,” as defined under the MGCL, unless our shareholders approve such voting rights by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares and shares held by our trustees and officers. “Control shares” are generally defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees. Our amended and restated declaration of trust and/or bylaws, provide that we are not bound by the Maryland Business Combination Act or the control share acquisition statute. However, in the case of the control share acquisition statute, our board of trustees may opt to make this statute applicable to us at any time by amending our bylaws, and may do so on a retroactive basis. We could also opt to make the Maryland Business Combination Act applicable to us by amending our declaration of trust by a vote of a majority of our outstanding common shares. Finally, the “unsolicited takeovers” provisions of the MGCL permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement certain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price or that shareholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests. Tax Risks of our Business and Structure If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will not be able to deduct our distributions, and our income will be subject to taxation, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code commencing with our short taxable year ended December 31, 2003. The requirements for qualification as a REIT, however, are complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing REITs are limited. The REIT qualification rules are even more complicated for a REIT that invests through an operating partnership, in various joint ventures, in other REITs and in both equity and debt investments. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. If we fail to meet these requirements and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, our distributions to our shareholders will not be deductible by us and we will be subject to a corporate level tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, substantially reducing our cash available to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, if we failed to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would no longer be required to make distributions for federal income tax purposes. Incurring corporate income tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps that could negatively affect our operating results. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a REIT qualification requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, unless relief provisions applicable to certain REIT qualification failures apply, we would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. We may not qualify for relief provisions for REIT qualification failures and even if we can qualify for such relief, we may be required to make penalty payments, which could be significant in amount. Even if we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are subject to any applicable state, local or foreign taxes and our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local income taxes at regular corporate rates. 25 Table of Contents Failure of our operating partnership to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would result in our failure to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Failure of our operating partnership (or a subsidiary partnership) to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would have serious adverse consequences to our shareholders. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the federal income tax status of our operating partnership or any of its subsidiary partnerships, our operating partnership or the affected subsidiary partnership would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, we would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT. Distribution requirements relating to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes limit our flexibility in executing our business plan. Our long-term business plan contemplates growth through acquisitions. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains) for each of our taxable years. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we are required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which actual distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year and any amount of our undistributed taxable income required to be distributed from prior years. We have distributed, and intend to continue to distribute, to our shareholders all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income each year in order to comply with the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to eliminate all federal income tax liability at the REIT level and liability for the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Our distribution requirements limit our ability to accumulate capital for other business purposes, including funding acquisitions, debt maturities and capital expenditures. Thus, our ability to grow through acquisitions will be limited if we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing. In addition, differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses in arriving at REIT taxable income and the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds or make a taxable distribution of our shares or debt securities to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. Our disposal of properties may have negative implications, including unfavorable tax consequences. If we make a sale of a property directly or through an entity that is treated for federal income tax purposes as a partnership or a disregarded entity, and such sale is deemed to be a sale of dealer property or inventory, such sale may be deemed to be a “prohibited transaction” under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs, in which case our gain, or our share of the gain, from the sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. If we believe that a sale of a property might be treated as a prohibited transaction, we may seek to conduct that sales activity through a taxable REIT subsidiary, in which case the gain from the sale would be subject to corporate income tax but not the 100% prohibited transaction tax. We cannot assure you, however, that the Internal Revenue Service will not assert successfully that sales of properties that we make directly or through an entity that is treated as a partnership or a disregarded entity, for federal income tax purposes are sales of dealer property or inventory, in which case the 100% penalty tax would apply. Moreover, we have entered and may enter into agreements with joint venture partners or contributors to our operating partnership that require us to indemnify, in whole or in part, such joint venture partners or such contributors for their tax obligations resulting from the recognition of gain in the case of taxable sales of certain contributed properties or a failure to maintain certain property-level indebtedness on certain contributed properties for a period of years. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our securities. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders, as the well as the market price of our securities, could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum federal income tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to U.S. shareholders taxed at individual rates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced tax rates. Although such reduced tax rates do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable tax rates 26 Table of Contents applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in shares of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the market price of shares of REITs, including our shares. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to sell otherwise attractive investments. To maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements with respect to the character of our assets. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter (by, possibly, selling assets notwithstanding their prospects as an investment) to avoid losing our REIT status. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, and the failure exceeds a de minimis threshold, we may be able to preserve our REIT status if (a) the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, (b) we dispose of the assets causing the failure within six months after the last day of the quarter in which we identified the failure, (c) we file a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service describing each asset that caused the failure, and (d) we pay an additional tax of the greater of $50,000 or the product of the highest applicable tax rate multiplied by the net income generated on those assets. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. If we or our predecessor entity failed to qualify as an S corporation for any of our tax years prior to our initial public offering, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify and to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may not have at the close of any year undistributed “earnings and profits” accumulated in any non-REIT year, including undistributed “earnings and profits” accumulated in any non-REIT year for which we or our predecessor, First Potomac Realty Investment Trust, Inc., did not qualify as an S corporation. Although we believe that we and our predecessor corporation qualified as an S corporation for federal income tax purposes for all tax years prior to our initial public offering, if it is determined that we or our predecessor did not so qualify, we would not have qualified as a REIT for our short taxable year ended December 31, 2003. Any such failure to qualify may also prevent us from maintaining our qualification as a REIT for any of the following four tax years. If First Potomac Management, Inc. failed to qualify as an S corporation during any of its tax years, we may be responsible for any entity level taxes due. We believe First Potomac Management, Inc. qualified as an S corporation for federal and state income tax purposes from the time of its incorporation in 1997 through the date it merged into our Company in 2006. However, the Company may be responsible for any entity-level taxes imposed on First Potomac Management, Inc. if it did not qualify as an S corporation at any time prior to the merger. First Potomac Management, Inc.’s former shareholders have severally indemnified us against any such loss; however, in the event one or more of its former shareholders is unable to fulfill its indemnification obligation, we may not be reimbursed for a portion of any taxes owed. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Equity Securities Our common and preferred shares trade in a limited market which could hinder your ability to sell our common or preferred shares. Our common shares experience relatively limited trading volume; many investors, particularly institutions, may not be interested (or be permitted) in owning our common shares because of the inability to acquire or sell a substantial block of our common shares at one time. This illiquidity could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. In addition, a shareholder may not be able to borrow funds using our common shares as collateral because lenders may be unwilling to accept the pledge of common shares having a limited market, thereby making our common shares a less attractive investment for some investors. In addition, an active trading market on the NYSE for our Series A Preferred Shares issued in January 2011 (which was our first issuance of preferred shares) and March 2012 may not develop or, if it does develop, may not last, in which case the trading price of our Series A Preferred Shares could be adversely affected or trade at prices lower than the initial offering price. The market price and trading volume of our common and preferred shares may be volatile. The market price of our common shares has been and may continue to be more volatile than in prior years and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common and preferred shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common and preferred shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future, including as a result of factors unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. 27 Table of Contents Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common and preferred shares include: • actual or anticipated declines in our quarterly operating results or distributions; • reductions in our funds from operations; • declining occupancy rates or increased tenant defaults; • general market and economic conditions, including continued volatility in the financial and credit markets; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our securities to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional shareholders; • our issuance of additional debt or preferred equity securities; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • unanticipated charges due to the vesting of equity based compensation awards upon achievement of certain performance measures that cause our operating results to decline or fail to meet market expectations. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common shares is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution rate on our common shares or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. The market price of our common shares likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to shareholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our common shares. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common shares could decrease because potential investors may require a higher yield on our common shares as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our non-hedged variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our shareholders. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future or the amount of any dividends. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any risk factors in our subsequent filings with the SEC. For example, we significantly reduced our quarterly common share dividend during 2009 and, in January 2013, announced a further reduction in our quarterly common share dividend to $0.15 per share, which represents a 25% reduction from the previous dividend rate of $0.20 per share. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of trustees and their payment and amount will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status, compliance with our debt covenants and other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future or that the distributions will be made in amounts similar to our current distributions. In particular, our outstanding debt, and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements, could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our equity securities, including paying dividends. See “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Business and Properties – Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.” Further, distributions with respect to our common shares are subject to our ability to first satisfy our obligations to pay distributions to the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares, and future offerings of preferred shares could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common shares. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital or may be taxable distributions of our shares or debt securities. 28 Table of Contents Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common and preferred shares upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common shares or senior to or on parity with our preferred shares for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our equity securities. In the future, particularly as we seek to acquire and develop additional real estate assets consistent with our growth strategy, we may attempt to increase our capital resources through debt offerings or additional equity offerings, including senior or subordinated notes and series of preferred shares or common shares. For example, between 2010 and 2013, we sold approximately 25.3 million common shares and 6.4 million preferred shares in underwritten public offerings and approximately 1.0 million common shares through our controlled equity program. Our preferred shares will rank junior to all of our existing and future debt and to other non-equity claims on us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including claims in bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceedings. Further, upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our equity securities, or both. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our equity securities bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our equity securities and diluting their share holdings in us. Shares eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our share price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common shares, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares, including common shares issuable upon the redemption of units of our Operating Partnership and exercise of options, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares and impede our ability to raise capital. Any substantial sale of our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. We also may issue from time to time additional common shares or preferred shares or units of our Operating Partnership in connection with the acquisition of properties, and we may grant demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. For example, in 2011, we issued approximately 2.0 million units of our operating partnership in connection with the acquisition of an office property in Washington, D.C. and granted the holders of those units registration rights. Sales of substantial amounts of securities or the perception that these sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our securities. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. Holders of Series A Preferred Shares have extremely limited voting rights. Holders of our Series A Preferred Shares have extremely limited voting rights. Our common shares are the only class of our equity securities carrying full voting rights. Voting rights for holders of Series A Preferred Shares exist primarily with respect to the ability to appoint additional trustees to our Board of Trustees in the event that six quarterly dividends (whether or not consecutive) payable on our Series A Preferred Shares are in arrears, and with respect to voting on amendments to our declaration of trust or our Series A Preferred Shares Articles Supplementary that materially and adversely affect the rights of Series A Preferred Shares holders or create additional classes or series of preferred shares that are senior to our Series A Preferred Shares. Other than very limited circumstances, holders of Series A Preferred Shares will not have voting rights. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents 