ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our Company involves various risks, including the risk that an investor might lose its entire investment. The following discussion concerns some of the risks associated with our business. These risks are interrelated and should be considered collectively. The risks described below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or not identified below, may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our security holders. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties If current adverse global market and economic conditions continue or worsen, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with significantly tighter credit markets and a recession that is expected to continue into the second half of 2009. These conditions, combined with the deteriorating financial conditions of numerous financial institutions, rising unemployment and declining residential and commercial real estate markets, among other things, have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. and other economies. As a result of these conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected in the markets in which we own properties and we and our tenants conduct operations. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of numerous financial institutions specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants and our lenders. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our tenants, to replace or renew maturing liabilities on a timely basis, access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements and may result in adverse effects on our and our tenants’ financial condition and results of operations. If our tenants’ businesses or ability to obtain financing deteriorates further, they may be unable to pay rent to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. In addition, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility depends on the ability of the lenders that are parties to such facility to meet their funding commitment to us. We cannot assure you that continuing long-term disruptions in the global economy and the continuation of tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of, third party financial institutions as a result of such disruptions, will not have an adverse effect on our lenders. If our lenders are not able to meet their funding commitment to us, our business, results of operation, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In response to the deteriorating market and economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to help stabilize the banking system and financial markets and to reduce the severity and length of the recession. We cannot predict the duration or severity of the current economic challenges, nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the current economic downturn, or the U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies attempts to stabilize the banking system and financial markets and to stimulate the economy, will be successful. We may not be able to access adequate cash to fund our business. Our business requires access to adequate cash to finance our operations, distributions, capital expenditures, debt service obligations, development and redevelopment costs and property acquisition costs, if any. We expect to generate the cash to be used for these purposes primarily with operating cash flow, borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility and secured term loans, proceeds from sales of strategically identified assets and potential joint ventures and, when market conditions permit, through the issuance of debt and equity securities from time to time. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to fund our business, particularly if we are unable to renew leases, lease vacant space or re-lease space as leases expire according to expectations. Moreover, difficult conditions in the financial markets, and the economy generally, have caused many lenders, including our own, to suffer substantial losses, thereby causing many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. As a result, the real estate debt markets are experiencing a period of uncertainty, which may reduce our access to funding alternatives, or our ability to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, market conditions, such as the current global economic environment, may also hinder our ability to complete joint venture transactions, sell strategically identified assets and access the debt and equity capital markets. If these conditions persist, we may need to find alternative ways to access cash to fund our business, including distributions to shareholders. 10 Such alternatives may include, without limitation, curtailing development or redevelopment activity, disposing of one or more of our properties possibly on disadvantageous terms or entering into or renewing leases on less favorable terms than we otherwise would, all of which could adversely affect our profitability. If we are unable to generate, borrow or raise adequate cash to fund our business through traditional or alternative means, our business, operations, financial condition and distribution to shareholders will be adversely affected. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants, who may fail to make lease payments and thereby cause a significant decrease in our revenues and profitability. We are subject to the credit risk of our tenants. We cannot assure you that our tenants will not default on their leases and fail to make rental payments to us. In particular, the global recession, the recent disruption in the financial and credit markets, local economic conditions and other factors affecting the industries in which our tenants operate may affect our tenants’ ability to meet their obligations, including making rental payments to us, which may result in their bankruptcy or insolvency. A tenant in bankruptcy may be able to restrict our ability to collect unpaid rent and interest during the bankruptcy proceeding and may reject the lease. In the event of the tenant’s breach of its obligations to us or its rejection of the lease in bankruptcy proceedings, we may be unable to locate a replacement tenant in a timely manner or on comparable or better terms. The loss of rental revenues from any of our larger tenants, a number of our smaller tenants or any combination thereof, combined with our inability to replace such tenants on a timely basis may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet our financial obligations. A majority of our tenants hold leases covering less than 10,000 square feet. Many of these tenants are small companies with nominal net worth. The loss of rental revenues from any of our larger tenants or a number of our smaller tenants may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to meet our financial obligations. Loss of the U.S. Government as a tenant could lead to a substantial decrease in our cash flow and an impairment of the value of our properties. The U.S. Government accounted for 6.8% of our total annualized rental revenue as of December 31, 2008. On July 31, 2003, the United States Department of Defense issued the Unified Facilities Criteria (the “UFC”), which establish minimum antiterrorism standards for the design and construction of new and existing buildings leased by the departments and agencies of the Department of Defense. The loss of the federal government as a tenant resulting from our inability to comply with the UFC standards or for any other reason or the loss of a future significant tenant would have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our affected properties. A reduction or elimination of rent from the U.S. Government or other significant tenants would reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our security holders. We may be unable to renew expiring leases or re-lease vacant space on a timely basis or on attractive terms, which could significantly decrease our cash flow. Current tenants may not renew their leases upon the expiration of their terms. Alternatively, current tenants may attempt to terminate their leases prior to the expiration of their current terms. If non-renewals or terminations occur, we may not be able to locate qualified replacement tenants and, as a result, we could lose a significant source of revenue while remaining responsible for the payment of our obligations. Moreover, the terms of a renewal or new lease may be less favorable than the current lease terms. Any of these factors could cause a decline in lease revenue, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Our debt level may have a negative impact on our ability to make distributions to our security holders and pursue our business plan. We have incurred indebtedness in connection with the acquisition of our properties, and we will incur new indebtedness in the future in connection with our acquisition, development and operating activities. Our use of debt financing creates risks, including risks that: • our cash flow will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; • we will be unable to refinance some or all of our indebtedness or that any refinancing will not be on terms as favorable as those of the existing indebtedness; • required debt payments will not be reduced if the economic performance of any property declines; • debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our security holders and funds available for acquisitions; • most of our secured debt obligations require the lender to be made whole to the extent we decide to pay off the debt prior to the maturity date; and • any default on our indebtedness could result in acceleration of those obligations and possible loss of property to foreclosure. 11 If the economic performance of any of our properties declines, our ability to make debt service payments would be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, we may lose that property to lender foreclosure with a resulting loss of income and asset value. We do not have a policy limiting the amount of debt that we may incur. However, under the covenants of our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes, we have certain restrictions on the amount of debt we are allowed to incur. Our leverage levels may make it difficult to obtain additional financing based on our current portfolio or to refinance existing debt on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain additional financing could impede our ability to grow and develop our business. Our leverage levels also may adversely affect the market price of our securities if an investment in our Company is perceived to be more risky than an investment in our peers. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the returns that we expect, particularly in the current global economic environment, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. Over the last few years, we have focused our efforts on the acquisition, development and redevelopment of industrial properties and business parks. We intend to continue to acquire and develop industrial and business park properties. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. A majority of these estimates were made in advance of the recent economic downturn and we cannot assure you that our operations at these properties will not be adversely affected by the current global economic environment relative to our original estimates. Additionally, we have acquired, and may continue to acquire, properties not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property until the property is more fully leased at favorable rental rates. If our estimated return on investment for the property proves to be inaccurate and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing the investment. In addition, when we acquire a property, we often plan to reposition or redevelop that property with the goal of increasing profitability. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. If one or more of these new properties do not perform as expected or we are unable to successfully integrate new properties into our existing operations, our overall financial performance may be adversely affected. Our business strategy contemplates expansion through acquisition and we may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to successfully integrate new properties into our portfolio without unanticipated disruption or expense. Our business strategy contemplates expansion through acquisition. As we increase the size of our portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff to integrate new properties into our portfolio or manage any future acquisitions of properties without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Our acquisitions of properties will generate additional operating expenses that we will be required to pay. Our past growth has required, and our growth will continue to require, increased investment in management personnel, professional fees, other personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which could cause our operating margins to decline from historical levels, especially in the absence of revenue growth. As we acquire additional properties, we will be subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including tenant retention and mortgage default. Our failure to successfully integrate acquisitions into our portfolio and manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our variable rate debt subjects us to interest rate risk. We have an unsecured revolving credit facility that bears interest at a variable rate on any amounts drawn on the facility and a $15.0 million secured term note that bears interest at a variable rate. As of December 31, 2008, we had $113.0 million of variable rate debt, which was hedged through various interest rate swap agreements that effectively fixed the contractual interest rates. We may incur additional variable rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates on variable rate debt would increase our interest expense, if not hedged properly or at all, which would adversely affect net earnings and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to our security holders. 12 We have and may continue to engage in hedging transactions, which can limit our gains and increase exposure to losses. We have and may continue to enter into hedging transactions to attempt to protect us from the effects of interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt, or in some cases, prior to a proposed debt issuance. Our hedging transactions may include entering into interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, or other interest rate exchange contracts. Hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Moreover, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things: • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which we seek protection; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our shareholders’ equity. Hedging involves risk and typically involves costs, including transaction costs that may reduce our overall returns on our investments. These costs increase as the period covered by the hedging increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. These costs will also limit the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. We generally intend to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. REIT qualification rules may limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions by requiring us to limit our income from hedges. If we are unable to hedge effectively because of the REIT rules, we will face greater interest rate exposure. We compete with other parties for tenants and property acquisitions and many of these parties have substantially greater resources than we have. Our business strategy contemplates expansion through acquisition. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive, and we compete with substantially larger companies, including substantially larger REITs and institutional investment funds, for the acquisition, development and leasing of properties. Some of these companies are national or regional operators with far greater resources than we have. As a result, we may not be able or have the opportunity to make suitable investments on favorable terms in the future. Competition in a particular area also could adversely affect our ability to lease our properties or to increase or maintain rental rates. All of our properties are located in the Southern Mid-Atlantic region, making us vulnerable to changes in economic conditions in that region. Economic conditions in the Southern Mid-Atlantic region may significantly affect the occupancy and rental rates of our properties. A decline in occupancy and rental rates, in turn, may significantly affect our profitability and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations. The economic condition of the region may depend on one or more industries and, therefore, an economic downturn in one of these industry sectors may adversely affect our performance. Local real estate market conditions may include a large supply of competing space, and we compete for tenants based on rental rates, attractiveness and location of a property, and quality of maintenance and management services. As a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, our performance, our ability to make cash distributions, and the value of our properties will depend upon economic conditions in the region, including local real estate conditions and competition. There can be no assurance that these markets will continue to grow or that favorable economic conditions will exist. If unfavorable economic conditions occur in the region, our ability to make distributions to our security holders could be adversely affected. In particular, we are directly affected by decreases in federal government spending. 13 Development and construction risks could adversely affect our profitability. Our renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities may subject us to the following risks: • we may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects; • we may incur construction costs for a property that exceeds our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; • we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities; and • we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for a significant cash return. Because we are required to make cash distributions to our shareholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Failure to succeed in new markets may limit our growth. We may make selected acquisitions outside our current geographic market from time to time as appropriate opportunities arise. Our historical experience is in the Southern Mid-Atlantic region, and we may not be able to operate successfully in other market areas. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets. These risks include: • a lack of market knowledge and understanding of the local economies; • an inability to identify promising acquisition or development opportunities; • an inability to employ construction trades people; and • a lack of familiarity with local government and permitting procedures. Any of these factors could adversely affect the profitability of projects outside our current markets and limit the success of our acquisition and development strategy. If our acquisition and development strategy is negatively affected, the profitability, growth, and development of our business may be impeded. Under some of our leases, tenants have the right to terminate prior to the scheduled expiration of the lease. Some of our leases for our current properties provide tenants with the right to terminate prior to the scheduled expiration of the lease. If a tenant terminates its lease with us prior to the expiration of the term, we may be unable to re-lease that space on as favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Property owned through joint ventures, or in limited liability companies and partnerships in which we are not the sole equity holder, may limit our ability to act exclusively in our interests. We may make investments through partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures in the future. Partnership, limited liability company or joint venture investments may involve various risks, including the following: • our partners, co-members or joint ventures might become bankrupt (in which event we and any other remaining general partners or joint ventures would generally remain liable for the liabilities of the partnership or joint venture); • our partners, co-members or joint ventures might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals; • our partners, co-members or joint ventures may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies, or objectives, including our current policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a real estate investment trust; and • agreements governing joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships often contain restrictions on the transfer of a joint venture’s, member’s or partner’s interest or “buy-sell” or other provisions that may result in a purchase or sale of the interest at a disadvantageous time or on disadvantageous terms. 14 Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to make distributions with respect to, and the market price of, our securities. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event of a change in control of our Company or if their employment agreement is terminated without cause or not renewed. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers, Douglas J. Donatelli, Nicholas R. Smith, Barry H. Bass, James H. Dawson and Joel F. Bonder that provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends under certain circumstances following a change in control of our Company, terminated without cause, or if the executive officer resigns for “good reason” as defined in the employment agreements. These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of our Company and thereby prevent or deter a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for our securities or otherwise be in the interests of our security holders. We may experience conflicts of interest with several members of our board of trustees and our executive officers relating to their ownership of units of our Operating Partnership. Some of our trustees and executive officers may have conflicting duties because, in their capacities as our trustees and executive officers, they have a duty to our Company, and in our capacity as general partner of our Operating Partnership, they have a fiduciary duty to the limited partners, and some of them are themselves limited partners. These conflicts of interest could lead to decisions that are not in your best interest. Conflicts may arise when the interests of our shareholders and the limited partners of our Operating Partnership diverge, particularly in circumstances in which there may be an adverse tax consequence to the limited partners, such as upon the sale of assets or the repayment of indebtedness. We depend on key personnel with long-standing business relationships, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued services of our senior management team, including Douglas J. Donatelli. In particular, the extent and nature of the relationships that Mr. Donatelli has developed in the real estate community in our markets is critically important to the success of our business. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Donatelli and other key executive officers, there is no guarantee that Mr. Donatelli or our other key executive officers will remain employed with us. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team, particularly Mr. Donatelli, would harm our business and prospects. Further, loss of a member of our senior management team could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. One of our trustees may have conflicts of interest with our Company. One of our Company’s trustees, Terry L. Stevens, currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Highwoods Properties, Inc., a fully integrated, North Carolina-based REIT that owns, leases, manages, develops and constructs office and retail properties, some of which are located in our target markets. As a result, conflicts may arise when the Company and Highwoods Properties, Inc. compete in the same markets for properties, tenants, personnel and other services. Our rights and the rights of our security holders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Maryland law provides that a trustee has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our amended and restated declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. 15 As a result, we and our security holders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist. Our amended and restated bylaws require us to indemnify each trustee or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our trustees and officers. Our board of trustees may approve the issuance of preferred shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our declaration of trust permits our board of trustees to issue up to 50 million preferred shares, issuable in one or more classes or series. Our board of trustees may increase the number of preferred shares authorized by our declaration of trust without shareholder approval. Our board of trustees may also classify or reclassify any unissued preferred shares and establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote, to participate in earnings and to convert into securities) of any such preferred shares, which rights may be superior to those of our common shares. Thus, our board of trustees could authorize the issuance of preferred shares with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of the common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price of our common shares. Our ownership limitations may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or under applicable attribution rules, by five or fewer individuals (as defined to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first REIT taxable year). To preserve our REIT qualification, our declaration of trust generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of (i) more than 8.75% of the number or value of our outstanding common shares or (ii) more than 8.75% of the value of our outstanding shares of all classes. Generally, shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. Our declaration of trust has created a special higher ownership limitation of no more than 14.9% for the group comprised of Louis T. Donatelli, Douglas J. Donatelli and certain related persons. Unless the applicable ownership limitation is waived by our board of trustees prior to transfer, any transfer of our common shares that would violate the ownership limitation will be null and void, and the intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. Common shares that would otherwise be held in violation of the ownership limit will be designated as “shares-in-trust” and transferred automatically to a trust effective on the day before the purported transfer or other event giving rise to such excess ownership. The beneficiary of the trust will be one or more charitable organizations named by us. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common shares might receive a premium for their common shares over the then current market price or that such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make our common shares an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of (i) more than 8.75% of the number or value of our outstanding common shares or (ii) more than 8.75% in value of our outstanding shares of all classes. Our board of trustees may change our investment and operational policies and practices without a vote of our security holders, which limits your control of our policies and practices. Our major policies, including our policies and practices with respect to investments, financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions, are determined by our board of trustees. Although we have no present intention to do so, our board of trustees may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our security holders. Accordingly, our security holders have limited control over changes in our policies. Our declaration of trust and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we or our Operating Partnership may incur. If we become highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and harm our financial condition. 16 Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management. Our declaration of trust provides that a trustee may only be removed upon the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding common shares. Vacancies may be filled by the board of trustees. This requirement makes it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees. Our bylaws may only be amended by our board of trustees, which could limit your control of certain aspects of our corporate governance. Our board of trustees has the sole authority to amend our bylaws. Thus, the board is able to amend the bylaws in a way that may be detrimental to your interests. Maryland law may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Maryland law provides broad discretion to our board of trustees with respect to its fiduciary duties in considering a change in control of our Company, including that our board is subject to no greater level of scrutiny in considering a change in control transaction than with respect to any other act by our board. The Maryland Business Combination Act restricts mergers and other business combinations between our Company and an interested shareholder. An “interested shareholder” is defined as any person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our common shares and also includes any of our affiliates or associates that, at any time within the two year period prior to the date of a proposed merger or other business combination, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting power. Additionally, the “control shares” provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, are applicable to us as if we were a corporation. These provisions eliminate the voting rights of shares acquired in quantities so as to constitute “control shares,” as defined under the MGCL. Our amended and restated declaration of trust and/or bylaws, provide that we are not bound by the Maryland Business Combination Act or the control share acquisition statute. However, in the case of the control share acquisition statute, our board of trustees may opt to make this statute applicable to us at any time, and may do so on a retroactive basis. Finally, the “unsolicited takeovers” provisions of the MGCL permit our board of trustees, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our declaration of trust or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses that we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price or would otherwise be in the interests of our shareholders. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Real estate investments are inherently risky, which could adversely affect our profitability and our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Real estate investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. If we acquire or develop properties and they do not generate sufficient operating cash flow to meet operating expenses, including debt service, capital expenditures and tenant improvements, our income and ability to make distributions to our security holders will be adversely affected. Income from properties may be adversely affected by: • decreases in rent and/or occupancy rates due to competition or other factors; • increases in operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance premiums, site maintenance and utilities; • reduced capital investment in or demand for real estate in the future; • changes in interest rates and the availability of financing; and • changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing real estate usage, zoning and taxes. 17 General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States and in other countries, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults by our tenants under existing leases, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flow, trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our security holders. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to adverse changes in the performance of such properties may be limited, thus harming our financial condition. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older buildings; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. We may also acquire properties that are subject to a mortgage loan that may limit our ability to sell the properties prior to the loan’s maturity. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our security holders. The costs of compliance with or liabilities under environmental laws may harm our operating results. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with, or liability created under, existing or future environmental laws and regulations. An owner of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances, including petroleum-based products, on, under or from the property. Similarly, a former owner of real property can face liability for the disposal of hazardous substances that occurred during the time of ownership. We may face liability regardless of: • our knowledge of the contamination; • the extent of the contamination; • the timing of the release of the contamination; • the cause of the contamination; or • the party responsible for the contamination of the property. 18 Environmental liability may include the following, without limitation: investigation and feasibility study costs, remediation costs, litigation costs, oversight costs, monitoring costs, institutional control costs, penalties from state and federal agencies, and claims brought by citizen suits. Moreover, operations on-site may be required to be suspended until certain environmental contamination is remediated and/or permits are received. This may result in a default of the terms of the lease entered into with our tenants. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties of which we are unaware. For example, some of our properties contain, or may have contained in the past, underground tanks for the storage of hazardous substances, petroleum-based or waste products, or some of our properties may have been used historically to conduct industrial operations, and any of these circumstances could create a potential for release of hazardous substances. If environmental contamination exists on our properties, we could become subject to strict, joint and several liability for the contamination by virtue of our ownership interest. The presence of hazardous substances on, under or from a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we could nonetheless be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by our tenants, and we cannot be sure that our tenants would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our security holders. The Company’s properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our security holders. All of our properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines by the U.S. Government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and typically under our leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to security holders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our security holders. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, our tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenant’s expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and full replacement value property damage insurance policies. Our largest tenant, the federal government, is not required to maintain property insurance at all. We have obtained comprehensive liability, casualty, flood and rental loss insurance policies on our properties. 19 All of these policies may involve substantial deductibles and certain exclusions. In addition, we cannot assure you that our tenants will properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles. Should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market on which our securities trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operation and profitability. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. The terrorism insurance that we obtain may not be sufficient to cover loss for damages to our properties as a result of terrorist attacks. In addition, certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable and others would not be covered by our current terrorism insurance. Additional terrorism insurance may not be available at a reasonable price or at all. If the properties in which we invest are unable to obtain sufficient and affordable insurance coverage, the value of those investments could decline, and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of an investment. The United States may enter into armed conflicts in the future. The consequences of any armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Any of these events could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in a continuation of the current economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our security holders, and may adversely affect and/or result in volatility in the market price for our securities. Tax Risks of our Business and Structure If we fail to remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we will not be able to deduct our distributions, and our income will be subject to taxation, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code commencing with our short taxable year ended December 31, 2003. The requirements for qualification as a REIT, however, are complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing REITs are limited. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding shares of stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. If we fail to meet these requirements and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, our distributions to our shareholders will not be deductible by us and we will be subject to a corporate level tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. This would substantially reduce our cash available to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, incurring corporate income tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps that could negatively affect our operating results. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a REIT qualification requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, unless relief provisions applicable to certain REIT qualification failures apply, we would be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. Moreover, even if we maintain our qualification as a REIT, any net income of taxable REIT subsidiaries owned by our Operating Partnership would be subject to federal, state and local income taxes at regular corporate rates. Distribution requirements relating to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes limit our flexibility in executing our business plan. Our business plan contemplates growth through acquisitions. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year. REIT taxable income is determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and by excluding net capital gains. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we are required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which actual distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year and any amount of our undistributed taxable income required to be distributed from prior years. 20 We have distributed, and intend to continue to distribute, to our shareholders all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income each year in order to comply with the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid federal income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Our distribution requirements limit our ability to accumulate capital for other business purposes, including funding acquisitions, debt maturities and capital expenditures. Thus, our ability to grow through acquisitions will be limited if we are unable to obtain debt or equity financing. In addition, differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses in arriving at REIT taxable income and the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow funds or make a taxable distribution of our shares or debt securities to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT. Our disposal of properties may have negative implications, including unfavorable tax consequences. If we make a sale of a property directly or through an entity that is treated as a partnership or a disregarded entity, for federal income tax purposes, and it is deemed to be a sale of dealer property or inventory, the sale may be deemed to be a “prohibited transaction” under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs, in which case our gain, or our share of the gain, from the sale would be subject to a 100% penalty tax. If we believe that a sale of a property might be treated as a prohibited transaction, we may dispose of that property through a taxable REIT subsidiary, in which case the gain from the sale would be subject to corporate income tax but not the 100% prohibited transaction tax. We cannot assure you, however, that the Internal Revenue Service will not assert successfully that sales of properties that we make directly or through an entity that is treated as a partnership or a disregarded entity, for federal income tax purposes, rather than through a taxable REIT subsidiary, are sales of dealer property or inventory, in which case the 100% penalty tax would apply. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our securities. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our shareholders, as the well as the market price of our securities, could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. We may in the future choose to pay dividends in our own shares, in which case you may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash dividends you receive. We may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and our common shares at the election of each shareholder. Under IRS Revenue Procedure 2009-15, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend for 2008 and 2009 could be payable in our shares. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. shareholder may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the shares it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in shares. In addition, if a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell shares of our common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders taxed at individual rates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2010. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the market price of the stock of REITs, including our common shares. 21 Complying with REIT requirements may force us to sell otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements with respect to the character of our assets. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter (by, possibly, selling assets not withstanding their prospects as an investment) to avoid losing our REIT status. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, and the failure exceeds a de minimis threshold, we may be able to preserve our REIT status if (a) the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, (b) we dispose of the assets causing the failure within six months after the last day of the quarter in which we identified the failure, (c) we file a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service describing each asset that caused the failure, and (d) we pay an additional tax of the greater of $50,000 or the product of the highest applicable tax rate multiplied by the net income generated on those assets. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. If we or our predecessor entity failed to qualify as an S corporation for any of our tax years prior to our initial public offering, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we may not have at the close of any year undistributed “earnings and profits” accumulated in any non-REIT year, including undistributed “earnings and profits” accumulated in any non-REIT year for which we or our predecessor, First Potomac Realty Investment Trust, Inc., did not qualify as an S corporation. Although we believe that we and our predecessor corporation qualified as an S corporation for federal income tax purposes for all tax years prior to our initial public offering, if it is determined that we did not so qualify, we will not qualify as a REIT. Any such failure to qualify may also prevent us from qualifying as a REIT for any of the following four tax years. If First Potomac Management, Inc. failed to qualify as an S corporation during any of its tax years, we may be responsible for any entity level taxes due. We believe First Potomac Management, Inc. qualified as an S corporation for federal and state income tax purposes from the time of its incorporation in 1997 through the date it merged into our Company in 2006. However, the Company may be responsible for any entity-level taxes imposed on First Potomac Management, Inc. if it did not qualify as an S corporation at any time prior to the merger. First Potomac Management, Inc.’s former shareholders have severally indemnified us against any such loss; however, in the event one or more of its former shareholders is unable to fulfill its indemnification obligation, we may not be reimbursed for a portion of the taxes. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Shares Our common shares trade in a limited market which could hinder your ability to sell our common shares. Our common shares experience relatively limited trading volume; many investors may not be interested in owning our common shares because of the inability to acquire or sell a substantial block of our common shares at one time. This illiquidity could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. In addition, a shareholder may not be able to borrow funds using our common shares as collateral because lenders may be unwilling to accept the pledge of common shares having a limited market. Any substantial sale of our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile. The market price of our common shares has been and is likely to continue to be more volatile than in prior years and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Common share prices for REITs have experienced significant downward pressure over the course of the last year in connection with the disruptions in the real estate and credit markets and the current economic downturn and may continue to experience such downward pressures in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common shares include: • actual or anticipated declines in our quarterly operating results or distributions; • reductions in our funds from operations; • declining occupancy rates or increased tenant defaults; • general market and economic conditions, including continued volatility in the financial and credit markets; 22 • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our securities to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional shareholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • unanticipated charges due to the vesting of equity based compensation awards upon achievement of certain performance measures that cause our operating results to decline or fail to meet market expectations. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our common shares. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our common shares. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common shares is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher distribution rate on our common shares or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. The market price of our common shares likely will be based primarily on the earnings that we derive from rental income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to shareholders, and not from the underlying appraised value of the properties themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our common shares. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common shares could decrease because potential investors may require a higher yield on our common shares as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our non-hedged variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our shareholders. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure of our ability to pay dividends in the future or the amount of any dividends. We intend to make quarterly distributions to our shareholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments. Even though we have made distributions on our common shares each fiscal quarter since January 1, 2004, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any risk factors in our subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Comparable companies to ours have reduced and, in some cases, eliminated their distribution payments. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of trustees and their payment and amount will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future or that the distributions will be made in amounts similar to our historic distributions. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital or may be taxable distributions of our shares or debt securities. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common shares upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 23 In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including senior or subordinated notes and series of preferred shares or common shares. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common shares. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their share holdings in us. Shares eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our share price. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common shares, or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares, including up to approximately 3.8 million common shares issuable upon (i) the redemption of units of our Operating Partnership, (ii) exercise of options, and (iii) the conversion of our Operating Partnership’s 4.0% Exchangeable Senior Notes, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares and impede our ability to raise capital. The Company also may issue from time to time additional common shares or preferred shares or units of our Operating Partnership in connection with the acquisition of properties, and we may grant demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of securities or the perception that these sales could occur may adversely affect the prevailing market price for our securities. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 