Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. A substantial or extended decline in oil and gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The price we receive for our oil and gas production heavily influences our revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. Crude oil and natural gas are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand. Historically, the markets for oil and gas have been volatile. These markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in global supply and demand for oil and gas; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and gas; • political and economic conditions, including embargoes, in oil-producing countries or affecting other oil-producing activity; • the level of global oil and gas exploration and production activity; 15 Table of Contents • the level of global oil and gas inventories; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; • the price and availability of competitors’ supplies of oil and gas in captive market areas; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower oil and gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil or gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Lower oil and gas prices may also reduce the amount of our borrowing base under our credit agreement, which is determined at the discretion of the lenders based on the collateral value of our proved reserves that have been mortgaged to the lenders. Drilling for and producing oil and gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future success will depend on the success of our development, exploitation, production and exploration activities. Our oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable oil or gas production. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit prospects or properties will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. Please read “— Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate . . .” for a discussion of the uncertainty involved in these processes. Our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. Further, many factors may curtail, delay or cancel drilling, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements; • pressure or irregularities in geological formations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, including drilling rigs, and qualified personnel; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes and tropical storms; • reductions in oil and gas prices; and • title problems. 16 Table of Contents Our acquisition activities may not be successful. As part of our growth strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions of businesses and properties. However, suitable acquisition candidates may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable, and acquisitions pose substantial risks to our business, financial condition and results of operations. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete with other companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources to acquire attractive companies and properties. The following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions, including any future acquisitions and our recently completed acquisitions: • some of the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, reserves, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels; • we may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates; • we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner, which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems; • acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures; and • we may issue additional debt securities or equity related to future acquisitions. The development of the proved undeveloped reserves in the North Ward Estes and Postle fields may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. As of December 31, 2006, undeveloped reserves comprised 54% of the North Ward Estes field’s total estimated proved reserves and 34% of Postle field’s estimated total proved reserves. In order to fully develop these reserves, we expect to incur future development costs of $656.0 million at the North Ward Estes field and $302.6 million at the Postle field. During 2006, the estimated capital expenditures necessary to develop the proved reserves at the North Ward Estes field and Postle field increased substantially. The increase was due to several factors including equipment and service cost inflation, higher CO2 unit costs and volumes, higher costs associated with the expanded scope of previously identified projects as well as new projects identified during 2006. Together, these fields encompass 82% of our estimated total future development costs related to proved reserves. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. In addition, the development of these reserves will require the use of enhanced recovery techniques, including water flood and CO2 injection installations, the success of which is less predictable than traditional development techniques. Therefore, ultimate recoveries from these fields may not match current expectations. Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. In order to finance acquisitions of additional producing properties, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our risk profile. Additionally, significant acquisitions or other transactions can change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties may be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain external funding for future acquisitions or other transactions or to obtain external funding on terms acceptable to us. 17 Table of Contents Properties that we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our business strategy includes a continuing acquisition program. During 2006 and 2005, we completed five separate acquisitions of producing properties with a combined purchase price of $923.7 million for estimated proved reserves as of the effective dates of the acquisitions of 135.1 MMBOE, representing an average cost of $6.84 per BOE of estimated proved reserves. The successful acquisition of producing properties requires assessments of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: • the amount of recoverable reserves; • future oil and gas prices; • estimates of operating costs; • estimates of future development costs; • estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment; and • potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well, platform or pipeline. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination, when they are made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. If oil and gas prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and gas properties. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and gas properties for possible impairment. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. A write-down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. Our debt level and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of December 31, 2006, we had $380.0 million in outstanding consolidated indebtedness under Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement with $495.0 million of available borrowing capacity, as well as $620.0 million of Senior Subordinated Notes outstanding. We are permitted to incur additional indebtedness, provided we meet certain requirements in the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes and Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including: 18 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and detracting from our ability to withstand successfully a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors; and • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because debt under Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement may be at variable rates. We may be required to repay all or a portion of our debt on an accelerated basis in certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing our debt, it could lead to an event of default and the acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. Moreover, the borrowing base limitation on Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement is periodically redetermined based on an evaluation of our reserves. Upon a redetermination, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing capacity were outstanding, we could be forced to repay a portion of our bank debt. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay the interest on our debt, or future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets may not be available to pay or refinance such debt. The terms of our debt, including Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement, may also prohibit us from taking such actions. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We may not be able to successfully complete any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets. The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. The indentures governing our senior subordinated notes and Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement contain various restrictive covenants that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these agreements will limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • make loans to others; • make investments; • incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; 19 Table of Contents • create certain liens; • sell assets; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of the assets of us and our restrict subsidiaries taken as a whole; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • enter into hedging contracts; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement also requires us to maintain a certain working capital ratio and a certain debt to EBITDAX (as defined in the credit agreement) ratio. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the indentures governing our senior subordinated notes or Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement or any other subsequent financing agreements, a default may allow the creditors, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related indebtedness as well as any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to make available further funds. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and gas reserves. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with bank borrowings and cash generated by operations. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and our existing financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues or the borrowing base under our bank credit agreement decreases as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, then we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional financing. 20 Table of Contents If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and gas reserves. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In order to prepare our estimates, we must project production rates and timing of development expenditures. We must also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Therefore, estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we generally base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. If natural gas prices decline by $0.10 per Mcf, then the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2006 would have decreased from $2,392.2 million to $2,382.1 million. If oil prices decline by $1.00 per Bbl, then the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2006 would have decreased from $2,392.2 million to $2,340.9 million. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Oil and gas operations in the Rocky Mountains are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife. In certain areas drilling and other oil and gas activities can only be conducted during the spring and summer months. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. Resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Prospects that we decide to drill may not yield oil or gas in commercially viable quantities. We describe some of our current prospects and our plans to explore those prospects in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A prospect is a property on which we have identified what our geoscientists believe, based on available 21 Table of Contents seismic and geological information, to be indications of oil or gas. Our prospects are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect which is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or gas will be present in commercial quantities. The analogies we draw from available data from other wells, more fully explored prospects or producing fields may not be applicable to our drilling prospects. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our oil and gas operations. We are not insured against all risks. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured and underinsured events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and gas, including the possibility of: • environmental hazards, such as uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine, well fluids, toxic gas or other pollution into the environment, including groundwater and shoreline contamination; • abnormally pressured formations; • mechanical difficulties, such as stuck oil field drilling and service tools and casing collapse; • fires and explosions; • personal injuries and death; and • natural disasters. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations or result in substantial losses to our company. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, then it could adversely affect us. We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues. If we do not operate the properties in which we own an interest, we do not have control over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties. The failure of an operator of our wells to adequately perform operations, or an operator’s breach of the applicable agreements, could reduce our production and revenues. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s timing and amount of capital expenditures, expertise and financial resources, inclusion of other participants in drilling wells, and use of technology. Because we do not have a majority interest in most wells we do not operate, we may not be in a position to remove the operator in the event of poor performance. 22 Table of Contents Our use of 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Even when properly used and interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. As a result, some of our drilling activities may not be successful or economical and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area could decline. We often gather 3-D seismic over large areas. Our interpretation of seismic data delineates for us those portions of an area that we believe are desirable for drilling. Therefore, we may choose not to acquire option or lease rights prior to acquiring seismic data and, in many cases, we may identify hydrocarbon indicators before seeking option or lease rights in the location. If we are not able to lease those locations on acceptable terms, it would result in our having made substantial expenditures to acquire and analyze 3-D data without having an opportunity to attempt to benefit from those expenditures. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends in part on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities owned and operated by third parties. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms could materially harm our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of gas pipeline or gathering system capacity. If that were to occur, then we would be unable to realize revenue from those wells until production arrangements were made to deliver to market. We are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Exploration, development, production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations. Matters subject to regulation include: • discharge permits for drilling operations; • drilling bonds; • reports concerning operations; • the spacing of wells; • unitization and pooling of properties; and • taxation. Under these laws, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws could change in ways that substantially increase our 23 Table of Contents costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with the environmental laws and regulations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the imposition of injunctive relief. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly material handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, competitive position, or financial condition as well as those of the oil and gas industry in general. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or if our operations were standard in the industry at the time they were performed. Federal law and some state laws also allow the government to place a lien on real property for costs incurred by the government to address contamination on the property. Unless we replace our oil and gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. Unless we conduct successful development, exploitation and exploration activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will decline as those reserves are produced. Producing oil and gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our future oil and gas reserves and production, and, therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, exploit, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production. The loss of senior management or technical personnel could adversely affect us. To a large extent, we depend on the services of our senior management and technical personnel. The loss of the services of our senior management or technical personnel, including James J. Volker, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; James T. Brown, our Vice President, Operations; J. Douglas Lang, our Vice President, Reservoir Engineering/Acquisitions; David M. Seery, our Vice President of Land; Michael J. Stevens, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; or Mark R. Williams, our Vice President, Exploration and Development, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, any insurance against the loss of any of these individuals. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our exploration and development plans within our budget. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 24 Table of Contents Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to compete. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than ours, which can be particularly important in the areas in which we operate. Those companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and gas industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. Our use of oil and gas price hedging contracts involves credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases and result in significant fluctuations in our net income. We enter into hedging transactions for our oil and gas production to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the price of oil and gas. Our hedging transactions have to date consisted of financially settled crude oil and natural gas forward sales contracts, primarily costless collars, placed with major financial institutions. As of December 31, 2006, we have contracts maturing in 2007 covering the sale of between 410,000 and 450,000 barrels of oil per month and 1,600,000 MMbtu of gas per month. All our oil hedges expire in December of 2008, and all our gas hedges expire in March of 2007. Whiting Oil and Gas Corporation’s credit agreement required us to hedge at least 55% of our total forecasted production from the Postle properties and the North Ward Estes properties for the period through March 31, 2007 for gas and December 31, 2008 for oil. These hedges were put in place during the third quarter of 2005. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk — Commodity Risk” for pricing and a more detailed discussion of our hedging transactions. We may in the future enter into these and other types of hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the market prices of oil and gas. Hedging transactions expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including if production is less than expected, the other party to the contract defaults on its obligations or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received. Hedging transactions may limit the benefit we would have otherwise received from increases in the price for oil and gas. Furthermore, if we do not engage in hedging transactions, then we may be more adversely affected by declines in oil and gas prices than our competitors who engage in hedging transactions. Additionally, hedging transactions may expose us to cash margin requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 