Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to risks associated with bankruptcy proceedings. On April 1, 2008, the Company filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Although we cannot assure you that we will be successful, our intent in filing for chapter 11 protection was to use the powers afforded us under the Bankruptcy Code to effect a financial restructuring that would result in a significant reduction in our total indebtedness on a basis that would be fair and equitable to all of our creditors and stockholders. On June 30, 2008, we filed with the Bankruptcy Court a plan of reorganization. On August 8, 2008, we filed an amended plan of reorganization, which was further amended in December 2008 (the “Amended Plan”). On December 8, 2008, the Amended Plan and a proposed disclosure statement with respect to the Amended Plan were filed with the Bankruptcy Court. Although we currently plan to complete the consolidation of the connector-seal business prior to seeking approval of the Amended Plan, if the Amended Plan becomes effective without further amendment, the following distributions would be made: — The senior, secured credit facility would be repaid in full in cash; — Each holder of a general unsecured claim, other than holders of Senior Subordinated Notes and the Junior Subordinated Note, would receive an initial cash payment equal to 10% of their claim and nine additional cash payments, each equal to 10.75% of their claim, payable quarterly, commencing three months after the effective date of the Amended Plan; — Each holder of a Senior Subordinated Note claim would receive shares of new Series C Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference equal to their claim, increasing at the rate of 6% per annum, and convertible into common stock at $4.46 per share; and — Each holder of a Junior Subordinated Note claim and a Series B Preferred Stock interest would receive new shares of common stock with a value equal to their claim or interest. If the Amended Plan had become effective on December 31, 2008, $48,407,000 of our liabilities would have been converted into equity securities. This would substantially dilute the ownership percentage of the holders of our currently outstanding common stock. For a detailed description of the Amended Plan, the classification and treatment of claims and interests, and the proposed terms of the Series C Preferred Stock, please refer to the proposed disclosure statement filed with the Bankruptcy Court on December 8, 2008. The proposed disclosure statement along with other documents related to the chapter 11 proceedings can be found at http://chapter11.epiqsystems.com/lexington. The risks and uncertainties associated with the chapter 11 proceedings, including our ability to operate pursuant to the terms of our debtor-in-possession credit arrangements, our ability to obtain court approvals with respect to motions in the chapter 11 proceedings, our ability to obtain financing that will permit us to exit chapter 11, and our ability to develop, confirm, and consummate a plan of reorganization with respect to the chapter 11 proceedings, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our consolidated financial statements have been presented on a “going concern basis,” as such term is used in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A going concern basis contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our ability to reorganize the Company is subject to risks and uncertainties. The consolidated financial statements do not - 8 - include any adjustments to the amounts or classification of assets or liabilities to reflect these risks and uncertainties. We are dependent on a few major customers. In 2008, the three largest customers of the Rubber Group accounted for 36.9% of the Rubber Group’s net sales, and the three largest customers of the Metals Group accounted for 48.3% of the Metals Group’s net sales. Generally, loss of a significant amount of business from any of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if such business were not substantially replaced by additional business from existing or new customers. Additionally, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if any of our large customers experienced financial difficulties that caused them to delay, or fail to make, payments for goods sold to them. We are dependent on the automotive original equipment industry. Net sales to customers that supply systems to manufacturers of new cars and trucks represented 36.7%, 48.5%, and 50.8% of our consolidated net sales in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Sales to these customers are in part tied to the rate of sales of new vehicles. The unexpected, sharp decline in the sales of new cars and trucks that started during the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 has adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. To mitigate the impact of the sharp decline in new car and truck sales, during the first quarter of 2009, we decided to close our connector-seal manufacturing facility, in Vienna, Ohio, because we do not believe that it will be possible to return this facility to an adequate level of profitability in the foreseeable future. We are transferring the production of connector seals to our other rubber molding facilities. We currently anticipate that the restructuring of our connector-seal business will be substantially completed by June 30, 2009, and that the cost to restructure the connector-seal business will be approximately $1,082,000, which we expect to incur during the second and third quarters of 2009. Compared to 2008, we currently project that the restructuring of our connector-seal business will increase the EBITDA of our connector-seal business by approximately $2,500,000 in 2010. We encounter significant competition. The markets in which we compete are characterized by intense price competition and increasing customer requirements for quality and service. We compete for business primarily on the basis of quality, service, engineering capability, and price. We encounter substantial competition from a large number of domestic and foreign-based manufacturing companies. Our competitors range from small and medium-sized specialized firms to large diversified companies, many of which have resources substantially greater than ours. Additionally, some of our customers have internal manufacturing operations that compete with us. A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting may result in an inability to accurately report our financial results. In connection with management's evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, management identified significant deficiencies that, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness. Our management concluded that we have incomplete documentation of the internal control system, we lack a procedure for documenting certain internal control activities, interdivisional internal control duties are not completely segregated, and we have been unable to test the operational effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause - 9 - us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. For more information on our internal controls over financial reporting, please refer to “Controls and Procedures” in Part II, Item 9A(T). We may not be able to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Although its is our intention to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, on April 1, 2008, we filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Because of the additional demands placed on our limited number of accounting professionals due to the bankruptcy filing and the substantial financial resources required to remediate the deficiencies noted above, we may not be able to remediate these weaknesses prior to the initial audit of our internal control over financial reporting by a registered public accounting firm. If we are unable to remediate the weaknesses prior to this audit, we will encounter difficulties in the audit of our internal controls by our outside independent auditors, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and to comply with the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. For more information on our internal controls over financial reporting, please refer to “Controls and Procedures” in Part II, Item 9A(T). Part of our labor force is unionized. At December 31, 2008, employees at the Rubber Group included 151 workers at two plant locations that were subject to collective bargaining agreements, which expire on October 19, 2009, and March 11, 2009. We have commenced the process of terminating all operations at the manufacturing facility subject to the agreement that expired on March 11, 2009, and we anticipate that we will complete the closing of this facility, which as of December 31, 2008, had 54 hourly workers, during the second quarter of 2009. For more information on the shutdown of this manufacturing facility please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 and to Note 16, “Subsequent Event,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. We cannot assure you that our remaining union contract will be successfully renegotiated when it expires. Negotiations have not commenced regarding the extension of this agreement. If we were to experience a strike or work slowdown, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our customers may be subject to labor interruptions. Many of our customers and the three Detroit-based automobile manufacturers have union contracts with various unions. Protracted strikes or work slowdowns at our customers or at any of the Detroit-based automobile manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the cost and supply of raw materials. We purchase raw materials from various suppliers. While all of our raw materials are available from a number of suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price. Because raw materials in the aggregate constitute approximately 37% of our cost of goods sold, upward movement of raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have generally been successful in passing through to our customers increases in the prices of raw materials, although price increases to our customers have typically lagged behind the price increases from our suppliers. We attempt to minimize the effect of raw material price increases by seeking other sources of supply, substituting alternative materials, and reformulating compounds. - 10 - We have not experienced any disruption in our production as a result of raw material shortages, but, if any such shortage were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Our past and present business operations and our ownership and operation of real property are subject to extensive and changing environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of wastes, including hazardous wastes, and the protection of the environment. Some of our existing and former locations use and have used substances and generate or have generated or disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous or otherwise are subject to applicable environmental requirements. In addition, we utilize storage tanks and bulk containers for petrochemicals and other substances at our facilities. Based on our experience to date, we do not expect environmental claims or the costs of compliance with federal, state, and local, environmental laws and regulations to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, operating results, or financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, or other unanticipated events will not give rise to expenditures or liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability claims and litigation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability. Many of the components manufactured and sold by us are designed to be used for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to our components or the products in which they are incorporated could result in product failure or an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, consumers. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, our components or the products in which they are incorporated. We cannot assure you that the product liability insurance maintained by us would be available or sufficient to satisfy all claims against us or that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Future product liability claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, or product recalls could result in costly litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our reputation and limit our ability to attract and retain customers. Mitigating our risk is the fact that most of the components we manufacture are designed by our customers and are integrated into systems that were designed by our customers or their customers. For this reason we believe that the risk of a product liability claim against us is reduced. Self-insurance may subject us to possible liability that may be partially or completely uninsured. We maintain insurance coverage for many aspects of our business and operations. Based on our evaluation of the various risks to which we may be exposed, we retain all or a portion of the liability for potential losses because of various deductibles, coverage limits, and retentions. Although we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts, we attempt to limit our liability through, among other things, the ongoing training and education of our employees, the implementation of safety programs, the ongoing testing and evaluation of the safety and suitability of our workplace environments, the development of sound business practices, and the exercise of care and judgment in the negotiation of contracts with our customers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to limit our liability. - 11 - We are subject to interest rate changes. At December 31, 2008, we had a total of $38,175,000 of outstanding floating-rate debt at interest rates tied to either the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or the prime rate. Currently, we do not purchase derivative financial instruments to hedge or reduce our interest rate risk. As a result, changes in either LIBOR or the prime rate affect the rates at which we borrow funds. A change of control could result in a limitation on the use of our net operating loss carryforward. At December 31, 2008, our unused federal net operating loss carryforward totaled approximately $36,306,000. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if we undergo an “ownership change” the amount of our pre-change operating losses that may be utilized to offset future taxable income will be subject to an annual limitation. An ownership change occurs if the percentage of stock of the Company that is owned by certain groups of less than 5% shareholders, all treated as a single shareholder for this purpose, increases by more than 50 percentage points over a three-year period. Based on the value of the Company’s common stock being $4.46 per share, as described in the Disclosure Statement filed with Bankruptcy Court on December 8, 2008, we anticipate that the issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock and common stock pursuant to the plan of reorganization that we filed with the Bankruptcy Court on December 8, 2008, if not further amended, would constitute an “ownership change.” Assuming that we are in chapter 11 on the day that an ownership change occurs, the limitation imposed by Section 382 is generally equal to the product of (i) the fair market value of our stock immediately after the ownership change multiplied by (ii) the federal “long-term tax-exempt rate” in effect on the date of the ownership change. The annual limitation may be increased in the event that we have overall “built-in” gains in our assets at the time of the ownership change. (THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK) - 12 - 