D. RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal risks are described below. Risks Relating To Our Business Our business is exposed to the risk that adverse economic conditions, in our key geographical areas, will reduce the demand for information technology services and solutions. Demand for information technology services is dependent on customers’ operations, budgets and overall financial condition. Therefore, demand for our services is highly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and consolidation among our target customers in our core sectors. In particular, we are sensitive to economic conditions in our Energy and Transportation segments, which constituted 76% of our 2007 revenues. Generalized or localized downturns or inflationary pressures in our key geographical areas could also have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. This is particularly true in Europe, where 61.9% of our revenues were generated during 2007 and in North America where 17.7% of our revenues were generated. As much of our business activity is highly concentrated in Spain, our business and financial condition is largely dependent upon economic conditions in Spain. In addition, if worldwide adverse economic conditions continue or worsen, our expected growth will be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents We are particularly sensitive to risks relating to the uncertainties inherent in government and state-owned company contracts, especially in Europe. A substantial percentage of our revenue derives from services we provide as a contractor or subcontractor on various projects with governmental entities, including state-owned companies. In 2007, 30.4% of our revenues were derived from services we provided to governmental entities. Although a number of government projects for which we serve as a contractor or subcontractor are planned as multi-year projects, governments normally reconsider the funding of these projects on an annual (or more frequent) basis, particularly in the U.S. Generally, these governmental entities may change the scope of, terminate or delay these projects at their convenience. The termination of, or a major reduction in the scope of, a major government project could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, adverse economic changes or slowdowns, changes in government, or political instability in any of the countries and regions in which we operate, particularly in the U.S., Spain, Latin America, Asia-Pacific, the Middle-East and Africa, can impact government expenditures on infrastructure projects and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve growth in those geographic areas. We may not be able to manage effectively our expanding operations or integrate our acquired businesses successfully, which may impede our growth or negatively impact our performance. We grew significantly in 2006 and 2007, and we intend to continue to use the proceeds from our initial public offering to fund further acquisitions. Such growth has placed and will place a significant strain on our managerial and operational resources. To accommodate our growth and future acquisitions, and fulfill our obligations as a U.S. reporting company, we must implement new or upgraded operating and financial systems, procedures and controls throughout many different locations, including processes to address internal controls, trade barriers, foreign corrupt practices and receivables collection. The success of any acquisitions we make will also depend on our ability to integrate personnel and acquired assets. These efforts may not be successful. This risk is heightened because we envision making further acquisitions outside of Spain, even though much of our management and central operations are based in Spain. Our failure to expand and integrate these systems and procedures efficiently could cause our expenses to grow and our revenues to decline or grow more slowly than expected. Our inability to successfully integrate any businesses we acquired would cause us not to realize the degree or timing of benefits we expected and would impair our ability to achieve our growth strategy. We may incur financial risk in connection with “Build-Operate-Transfer” programs. “Build-Operate-Transfer” or “B-O-T” projects represent one method of financing a real-time process outsourcing program. A typical component of these “B-O-T” programs is a requirement to fund a portion of the equity investment required to construct the project in exchange for the right to operate a portion of the project (such as a toll system) for a fee over the life of the project. This exposes us to the risks inherent in an equity investment in a technological project, including the risks of integration delays and cost overruns, and could require us to incur indebtedness or obtain financing in order for us to be able to fund our required equity investment, which could increase our leverage and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not yet made an equity investment in a “B-O-T” project. We anticipate that we will invest some of the proceeds that we received from our IPO in “B-O-T” projects. In August 2007, we were awarded a nine-year concession contract for the design, implementation, operation and maintenance of a traffic control project in Panama City, under which we will borrow U.S. $12.3 to finance the project. Further details are contained in Item 5.B Credit Arrangements and Loan Facilities. We may not be able to successfully extend sales of our solutions into other geographic areas, which may impede our growth. Part of our growth strategy is predicated on extending sales in our segments to all of the geographic areas in which we currently operate. There are unique challenges in each geographic location in which we operate, and extending the geographical reach of our segments may be more difficult than we anticipate. In addition, in certain of our segments (particularly Transportation), customers are local in nature and thus to extend our segments into new geographic areas we will need to develop relationships with new customers. To the extent that we are unable to do so, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy. 7 Table of Contents We may need additional capital, which, if obtained, could cause us to take steps that could dilute the value of our shareholders’ investments, increase our indebtedness, or both. Our credit arrangements with Abengoa are one of our primary sources of borrowed capital for our working capital or other needs and permits us to request to borrow up to € 80.4 million for a period not to exceed one year. Abengoa may, at its option, elect not to lend us funds under this arrangement. In addition, Abengoa currently provides us with credit support in connection with some of our performance bonds and some of our lending arrangements and also periodically guarantees our lines of credit and our trade letters of credit with respect to some of our projects. Any refusal or inability of Abengoa to provide us with funding under the credit arrangement or to provide us with guarantees or credit support, because of financial constraints on Abengoa or otherwise, could significantly curtail our ability to access short-term capital and could have a material adverse effect on us. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any joint ventures investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If the resources available to us are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit arrangements. The sale of additional equity securities could result in a dilutive effect to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. In addition, we cannot be certain that any additional financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our ability to obtain new financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other needs depends on many factors beyond our control. It is possible that as a result of circumstances outside of our control, such as recessions in the key countries or markets in which we do business or instability in the financial markets, such as rapid changes in exchange rates, we may require new external financing in order to fund all of our operating, capital expenditure and investment requirements. Our ability to arrange for financing and the cost of such financing will be dependent on numerous factors outside of our control, including: • general economic and capital market conditions, including exchange rates; • the availability of credit from banks or other lenders; • investor confidence in us; • investor views about the information technology business and the key countries in which we do business; and • provisions of tax and securities laws that may be applicable to our efforts to raise capital. We may not be able to implement appropriate hedging strategies to protect against future movements in currency rates between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. In 2007, approximately 68% of our revenues were recorded in Euros, approximately 15% of our revenues were recorded in U.S. Dollars and the remainder was recorded in other currencies. If we fail to adequately hedge any of our foreign currency risk, we could be exposed to adverse foreign exchange rate changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our relationships with our alliance partners may not be successful, which could adversely affect our business and the implementation of our growth strategy. In certain market sectors, we depend on alliances and value-added reseller relationships to generate sales and manage existing projects. We have an agreement with Echelon for the Smart Metering Management (“SMM”) market and with DMS Group for Energy Distribution Management Systems which is an important product in the electricity distribution part of our Energy segment. We also have an agreement with Larson & Tubro in India among others. In the U.S. and Canada, we have alliances with Environmental Systems Research Institute (“ESRI”), for geographic information systems, OSISoft for data warehousing solutions and Symantec for security related solutions. These agreements are for renewable one-year terms and are terminable upon notice. If these relationships are not successful or the agreements are not renewed under favorable terms, our business and growth in those countries could be negatively affected. Problems with third-party technology suppliers could create delays in our delivery of products and systems to our customers. Some of our software products and systems use sub-products supplied by other technology companies such as operating systems databases, protocols, interfaces, middleware and graphics engines. In these cases we have long-term agreements, usually under a royalty scheme, to embed these third-party products and functionalities in our products and systems. If we are not successful in maintaining these agreements, we could encounter delays in our ability to deliver promised functionality to our customers while we investigate and install substitute technologies in our products. These delays could adversely affect our business. The failure of our mission-critical information technology solutions or our customers’ systems could expose us to liability. We provide real-time information management products and service solutions for our customers’ applications that monitor and control mission-critical operational and management functions. In some cases, these systems protect product inventories from problems such as theft, leakage or spills and protect the environment and public safety. Some of our solutions also minimize outage and waste issues. If a customer system experienced a critical failure or outage as a direct result of a defect in our products, whether those products are our own or those portions of the product supplied through integrated technology partners, we may be subject to claims for injuries or other damages. Our insurance may not be sufficient or may not apply to any exposure we have resulting from this type of product failure and we may not have adequate recourse against our technology partners. 8 Table of Contents Our operations depend on facilities throughout the world and are subject to risks that could disrupt the services that we provide. In providing our services, we operate out of numerous facilities worldwide. Our facilities and operations could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, computer viruses or public health concerns. A major catastrophe, such as an earthquake or other natural disaster at any of our sites, or significant political unrest, war or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we conduct operations, could result in a prolonged interruption of or disruption to the services we provide to our customers. We may not be able to provide our services in the manner required by our customers if any of the foregoing occur, which would damage our reputation, business and financial condition. A slow-down of the Chinese economy, adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Chinese government, or changes in the willingness of third parties to fund projects in China may reduce our growth and profitability. Our revenues in the Asia-Pacific region during 2007 were € 25.1 million and the majority of this revenue was derived from our Chinese operations. As part of our growth strategy in this region, we expect our Chinese operations to grow over the next several years. However, growth estimates in China are particularly unpredictable and our sales in China are subject to significant volatility. Since the late 1970s, the Chinese government has been reforming the economic system in China. However, any Chinese government economic reform policies or measures may from time to time be modified or revised. Although the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past decade, we cannot be certain that it will continue to grow at historical rates, if at all. In addition, China’s regulatory policies create additional administrative and operational burdens for us and increase our costs of doing business, and also make it more difficult for foreign companies to repatriate income from China. Any adverse changes in economic conditions in China, or changes in policies of the Chinese government or Chinese laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and investment in infrastructure and information technology. In addition, the funding for approximately half of our projects in China has come from third parties, such as the World Bank and the Spanish government. Changes in the willingness of such parties to provide funds for infrastructure projects, including for information technology services and solutions, would materially impact our ability to maintain or increase our current level of activity in China. These developments could adversely affect our businesses, lead to reduction in demand for our services, adversely affect our competitive position and limit our future growth. We depend substantially on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued growth and success depend in large part on the managerial and technical skills of the members of our senior management, particularly Manuel Sánchez, José Ignacio del Barrio, Ana Plaza, Francisco Cáceres, Raúl Agüera, Bárbara Zubiría, Carmen Rodríguez, Larry Stack, José Montoya, David Jardine, José María Flores, Ignacio González, Javier Garoz, Dai Yue, Luis Rancé, Marcio Leonardo, Adolfo Borrero, Lidia García, Aránzazu Caja and Rafael Bago, and the success of our expansion efforts depends on significant management attention to integration and coordination. Any loss of services of any of our senior management may negatively affect our business. In addition, during periods in which demand for technically-skilled employees is great, we may experience significant employee turnover. These individuals are in high demand and we may not be able to attract or retain the staff we need, which could adversely affect our businesses. We may not be able to compete effectively, which would harm our business. There are many companies that provide competing solutions in the segments and in the geographic areas in which we operate. In particular, we compete on our ability to provide innovative solutions to our customers. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative solutions for our customers at competitive prices, we will not be able to compete successfully. The competition we face is intense and we expect it to increase in the future. Increased competition could result in: • price reductions and lower revenues; • loss of customers; • lower than anticipated growth; and/or • loss of market share. 9 Table of Contents In addition, our competitors may develop products and services solutions that are better than ours, that are more appealing to customers or that achieve greater market acceptance. We compete with large engineering and industrial firms and small sector-driven specialized firms on a geographic and customer basis, including General Electric, Honeywell, Affiliated Computer Services Inc., Indra Sistemas, S.A., Sice (Sociedad Ibérica de Construcciones Eléctricas, S.A.) and Transcore Inc. (a subsidiary of Roper Industries). Many of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Also, some of our competitors have established offshore operations in countries like India and China in order to reduce the costs of research and development and engineering services for projects. These advantages may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements or acquisition opportunities than we can and to reduce their costs. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In addition, we often face significant competition from construction companies that also provide solutions similar to ours. To the extent these construction companies build an infrastructure project, they have an advantage relative to us in competing for the value-added information technology products and services solutions accompanying the infrastructure project. Our acquisitions and joint venture strategy involve risks and uncertainties that may harm our business or cause it not to perform as expected. As part of our business strategy, we continually review potential acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances that we expect will complement our existing business. In particular, we plan to continue to rely on potential acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances to help us fuel our growth by enhancing the value-added products and services solutions that we can offer to our installed customer base. However, we do not know for certain that we will be able to identify suitable joint ventures, acquisitions or alliances at particular times, or that we will be able to successfully close these transactions. In addition, any acquisitions and joint ventures we pursue may result in numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • the risks associated with entering geographic or business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; • the diversion of management attention from our other business concerns; • the risk that an acquired business, joint venture or investment will not perform as expected or that it will expose us to unforeseen liabilities; • the risk that our due diligence reviews of the target business may fail to evaluate accurately the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the target business, which may lead to disputes with the sellers of the business and/or to record an impairment loss; and • the risk that we may not be able to implement our internal controls and procedures over financial reporting in the one-year time frame allowed by the Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. To the extent we recognize goodwill in any acquisition and we later deem that goodwill to be impaired, we will recognize losses that will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we make minority investments in other companies, we will be exposed to the risk that we will not control those businesses or may need to invest additional capital in them. We may, directly or indirectly, make minority investments in other companies. If we obtain any such minority investments, we will not control any such companies and the business decisions of such companies may not be in our best interests. Some of these investments may require ongoing expenditures if we are required to meet capital calls in order to maintain our level of equity investment. If we do not make these additional investments when we are obligated to do so, our ownership interest may be diluted. In addition, if the value of these strategic investments declines, we may be subject to losses that will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Changes in technology could adversely affect our business and hurt our competitive position. The markets for our products and services change rapidly because of changes in customer requirements, technological innovations, new product introductions, prices, industry standards and domestic and international economic factors. New products and technology may render existing information, technology, products and services or technology infrastructure obsolete, excessively costly or otherwise unmarketable. If we are unable to introduce and integrate new technologies into our services in a timely and cost-effective manner, our competitive position will suffer and our prospects for growth will be impaired. In addition, our strategy to increase our gross margins through increased sales of higher value added, advanced applications would be impaired. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may reduce the value of our products, services and brand and impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. While we currently hold or have pending a large number of registered trademarks and product names, which we believe reduce the risk of third-party infringement, we currently hold no material patents or registered copyrights, and we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, copyright and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our rights in our proprietary technology. These measures may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary technology from third-party infringement and could subject us to increased competition or cause us to lose market share. In addition, these measures may not protect us from the claims of employees and other third parties. We also face risks to the protection of our proprietary technology because our products are sold in markets such as the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America that provide less protection for intellectual property than is provided under U.S. or Spanish laws. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property could weaken our competitive position, reduce the value of our products, services and brand, and harm our operating results. Labor and employment laws in Spain and other geographic areas in which we operate may make it difficult for us to reduce our workforce if we deem it advisable. Approximately 49% of our workforce is located in Spain. With our acquisition of Matchmind the number of our employees located in Spain has increased significantly. Spanish law places significant limitations on, and imposes a number of procedural requirements for, a company’s ability to reduce its workforce through layoffs or otherwise. These provisions of Spanish law could make it more difficult, expensive and time-consuming for us to reduce our workforce at a time when we consider it in our best interest to do so. In addition, approximately 12% of our workforce is located in Latin America and approximately 11% is located in Canada, where there are more restrictive labor and employment laws regarding workforce reductions than are typical in the U.S. Our business may suffer if we are sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. In the future, third parties may assert infringement claims alleging infringement by our current or future products or applications. These claims may result in protracted and costly litigation, subject us to liability if we are found to have infringed third parties’ intellectual property rights, and, regardless of the merits or ultimate outcome, may divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. We may adopt an equity-based compensation plan that may adversely affect our ordinary shares. In 2004 and prior years, under a plan established by Abengoa, certain of our employees, including members of our management team, entered into stock purchase agreements with Abengoa for ordinary shares of Telvent. In addition, in 2006, members of our senior management participated in a stock purchase plan on Abengoa’s shares. In the future, we may adopt an equity-based compensation plan which may adversely affect our ordinary shares. Although we have no current plans to implement an equity-based compensation plan with respect to our ordinary shares for employees and senior management, we expect in the future to consider adopting some form of an equity-based incentive plan. 11 Table of Contents We bear increased costs as a result of becoming a publicly-traded company in the U.S. As a result of becoming a publicly-traded company in the U.S. in October 2004, our general and administrative costs have increased by a significant amount. This increase is the result of higher expenses associated with director and officer liability insurance, auditing, management oversight, regulatory requirements (including the need to make regulatory filings as well as establish and maintain internal controls and procedures), investor relations, and the establishment and maintenance of heightened corporate governance measures. In addition, we incur additional legal and accounting costs as a result of being a U.S. public company and reporting in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These increased costs and the time demands on management may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We have broad discretion in how to use the remaining net proceeds we received from our IPO and we may not apply such proceeds to uses with which all our shareholders agree. We have no specific allocation for the remaining net proceeds and our management retains the right to utilize the net proceeds as it determines. We cannot assure you that management will be able to use the remaining proceeds to effectively continue the growth of our business or that management will use these proceeds in a manner with which all our shareholders will agree. Risks Relating to Being Part of the Abengoa Group Abengoa, our majority shareholder, is in a position to control matters requiring a shareholder vote, and this ownership concentration may adversely affect the market price of our shares as well as the ability of our other shareholders to influence matters subject to shareholder vote. Abengoa owns, indirectly, 62.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares. This concentration gives Abengoa the ability to control all matters submitted for shareholder vote, as well as the ability to call an extraordinary meeting of shareholders (which, under Spanish law, a holder of 5% or more of issued shares can do). At any such meeting, or at our ordinary general meeting of shareholders, Abengoa can, as a result of its majority ownership of our ordinary shares: • elect at least a majority of our directors; • effect certain amendments to our bylaws and other organizational documents; • control our decisions regarding debt incurrence, stock issuance and the declaration and payments of dividends; • control our management; and • approve or reject any merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent mergers, tender offers or other purchases of our ordinary shares. Therefore, this concentration of ownership may adversely affect our share price or the liquidity of our ordinary shares. Abengoa may choose to vote in a manner that is not consistent with the desires of the other owners of our ordinary shares or in a manner that the other owners of our ordinary shares do not consider to be in their best interest. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, approximately 56% of the shares of Abengoa were owned by its majority shareholder, Inversión Corporativa. Any significant change in Abengoa’s ownership structure could have a material effect on the manner in which Abengoa exercises its voting power. Because we are a “controlled company” as defined by the rules of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, Abengoa may choose to elect more directors to our board and may choose to appoint directors who are not independent of Abengoa or us to our board or committees of our board. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to implement our business strategy may be negatively affected by Abengoa’s financial condition, its other business opportunities and its agreements with its lenders. Although we are not directly responsible for the repayment of any loans made by third parties to Abengoa, Abengoa’s current credit facility contains, and its credit facilities in the future may contain, covenants between the Abengoa Group and its lenders which take into account our financial performance and financial condition as a consolidated entity. Some kinds of transactions which we may wish to undertake might require the consent or approval of Abengoa’s lenders in order for Abengoa to avoid a default under its agreement with those lenders because of the indirect restrictions imposed on us by the terms of Abengoa’s credit facility. These indirect restrictions arise out of covenants made by Abengoa in its credit facility that require Abengoa to ensure that none of its subsidiaries, including us, grant security interests in or dispose of their assets, make loans or otherwise extend credit, or enter into merger or combination transactions, other than in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. The covenants have the indirect effect of restricting our ability to take any of these actions or engage in any of these transactions, even if we consider them to be in our interest, because Abengoa has agreed with its lenders to ensure that we do not do so. In addition, Abengoa’s credit facility limits Abengoa’s ability to incur debt as calculated on a consolidated basis to include Abengoa and its subsidiaries, including us. These restrictions on Abengoa could have the indirect effect of limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness when it might otherwise be in our interest to do so. Our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected by Abengoa’s compliance with its obligations under its credit facilities. As our contracts with Abengoa were negotiated between parties under common control, it is possible we may have been able to obtain better terms from third parties or may not be able to replace them with equally-favorable arrangements. Our contracts with Abengoa were negotiated between parties under common control. It is possible that we may have been able to obtain better terms from third parties, and that the terms we received under the contracts with Abengoa may increase our expenses and reduce our net income compared to the terms of contracts we might have obtained from third parties. The most important of these contracts are our credit arrangement and service agreements with Abengoa. Our credit arrangement with Abengoa is one of our primary sources of borrowings. In addition, we recognized revenues in 2007 of € 28.5 million from services that we and our subsidiaries provided to Abengoa, primarily for the provision of communications, IT and related services; and we recognized expenses of € 21.1 million related to services, supplies and leased facilities provided by Abengoa to us. We have not attempted to negotiate similar arrangements with unaffiliated parties and do not know whether third parties would enter into such arrangements with us on more or less favorable terms, if at all. Consequently, if these existing agreements were terminated for any reason, we cannot be certain that we would be able to enter into equally-favorable arrangements with third parties, if at all. Our inability to replace these arrangements on equally-favorable terms could reduce our net income, limit our available borrowings and adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth objectives. Abengoa is not required to provide any security for funds we lend to it under our credit arrangement and any such loans will be treated as subordinated debt under Spanish law, which may limit our ability to be repaid and impair our financial condition in the event of Abengoa’s insolvency or bankruptcy. Under our credit arrangements with Abengoa, we may lend up to € 80.4 million at any one time to Abengoa for a period not to exceed one year. These arrangements are unsecured and may provide Abengoa with funds on a more favorable basis than otherwise available to it from third parties. We may not be repaid or receive the interest we have earned on those funds. Abengoa has significant other indebtedness currently outstanding, some or all of which may be secured or otherwise senior to us upon Abengoa’s insolvency or bankruptcy, which would also make it more difficult for us to be repaid upon any insolvency or bankruptcy. According to Spanish insolvency law, any loan between an insolvent or bankrupt company that forms part of a group and any of its affiliated companies will be considered to be a subordinated loan for the purposes of the bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. As a result of that subordination, payment of that affiliate loan shall be subject to the prior payment by the insolvent or bankrupt company of its other indebtedness and trade payables that are not expressly subordinated by law. Accordingly, under Spanish law, any money we loan to Abengoa may be considered to be subordinated debt of Abengoa in the event of Abengoa’s insolvency or bankruptcy. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating To The Public Market For Our Shares There was no public market for our ordinary shares prior to our IPO, the market price of our ordinary shares is volatile, and our liquidity may be affected by our major shareholder. Prior to our IPO, there was no public market for our ordinary shares. We cannot be certain that an active trading market for our shares will continue, or that the market price of our shares will not fall below the initial public offering price. Between our IPO and March 3, 2008, the high and low prices for our shares were $30.31 and $6.50, respectively. Since Abengoa, our executive officers and certain former executive officers own, approximately 67.3% of our ordinary shares, a significant portion of our shares may not trade. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of the securities of information technology companies, and which may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects from time to time may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. Any of these events could result in a material decline in the prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares, and could prevent shareholders from recouping their investment in the ordinary shares or selling their ordinary shares at a profit. Future sales by our pre-IPO shareholders of a substantial number of our shares in the public market could adversely affect the price of our shares. If our pre-IPO shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The ordinary shares that we sold in our IPO are eligible for immediate resale in the public market without restrictions, and the ordinary shares our pre-IPO shareholders hold may also be sold in the public market in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the United States Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and applicable lock-up agreements and provided that the circumstances in which they are offered or sold in Spain do not constitute an offer of securities under Spanish law. Abengoa currently holds, indirectly, 62.2% of our ordinary shares. In the event that Abengoa sells some or all of its shares to another party, our other shareholders will not generally be eligible to participate in the sale. Risks Relating To Our Organization Under Spanish Law We are a Spanish corporation and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us in U.S. domestic courts. We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Kingdom of Spain. At this time, only one of our directors or executive officers is a resident of the U.S. As a result, even though we have appointed CT Corporation System as our agent for service of process, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the U.S. upon us or our directors or officers regarding matters arising under the U.S. securities laws, or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts based upon these laws. Our counsel has advised us that it is doubtful that a lawsuit based upon U.S. securities laws could be brought in an original action in Spain, and that it is doubtful that a foreign judgment based on the U.S. securities laws could be enforced in Spain. Our counsel has also advised us that the courts of Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain have exclusive jurisdiction for challenging corporate resolutions, while the general rules of jurisdiction and international treaties will apply to any other claims by shareholders against us. Abengoa can effectively control the timing and amount of any dividends that we pay in the future. Our bylaws and Spanish law require shareholder approval in order for us to declare dividends. If we declare dividends in the future, we may not be able to pay them more frequently than annually due to certain provisions of Spanish law. Although we will declare any dividends in Euros as required under Spanish law, we intend to pay dividends in U.S. Dollars. Any holders of our ordinary shares outside of the U.S. may incur costs associated with receiving dividends in U.S. Dollars. Our ability to pay any dividends and the effect of any such dividends on our financial position will be affected by changes in exchange rates. The amount of the dividends we may pay will be based on a calculation of our net income in Euros in accordance with Spanish GAAP. Also, Abengoa, our indirect majority shareholder, is, subject to the requirements of Spanish corporate law, effectively in a position to control whether and when we declare any dividends. 14 Table of Contents The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our bylaws and Spanish law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. In particular, our shareholders do not have appraisal rights in the case of a merger or consolidation. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our bylaws and by Spanish law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the typical rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S. corporations. For example, under Spanish law, we are required to set aside 10% of our net income as a legal reserve until the balance of the reserve is equivalent to at least 20% of our issued share capital. In addition, Spanish law makes it more difficult for us to pay dividends more frequently than annually and Spanish law does not grant appraisal rights to a corporation’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the corporation. At our ordinary general meeting, shareholders are asked to approve the actions of our management, the financial statements of our previous fiscal year and the allocation of our net income and loss (and any other issues presented by the Board). If our shareholders do not approve our Spanish GAAP financial statements, we cannot file our annual accounts with the Mercantile Registry of Madrid. In certain circumstances, if the annual accounts are not registered within one year from the end of the relevant fiscal year, we would be precluded from registering any other resolutions with the Mercantile Registry until we have filed our annual accounts. Additionally, pursuant to our bylaws and the Spanish Corporation Law, shareholders have preemptive rights to subscribe for any new shares issued by us, including the ordinary shares. These preemptive rights may be voluntarily waived by our shareholders or may be abolished in certain circumstances if our shareholders pass a resolution at a shareholders’ meeting in accordance with Article 159 of the Spanish Corporation Law. Our ability to raise funds through the sale of ordinary shares in the future, our ability to use our ordinary shares to make acquisitions, and our ability to provide management with equity-based compensation, could be adversely affected by these preemptive rights. Provisions of our bylaws and Spanish law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore prevent payment of any expected acquisition premium on the price of our shares. Provisions of Spanish corporation and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making it more difficult for another entity to merge with or acquire us. Further, as is the case in civil law jurisdictions generally, a merger or takeover in Spain is subject to substantially more administrative process than would be the case in a typical U.S. jurisdiction. This additional administrative process could protract or make more expensive the process of effecting such a transaction. Under Spanish law, directors of a corporation may be elected to serve for terms of up to six years and we have adopted five-year terms for our directors, although actions taken at the general shareholders’ meeting may result in the directors being removed at any time. As a result of these five-year terms, not all of our directors will be elected each year. This may have the result of delaying or making more expensive an attempt to effect a change of control of our Company. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Spanish law. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. 