Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to risks associated with bankruptcy proceedings. On April 1, 2008, the Company filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. We do not believe that we will need to utilize the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code to effect any significant operational restructuring or to eliminate or renegotiate any unprofitable executory contracts that are material to our business. Our operations are healthy and profitable and, although there can be no assurance, we expect that to continue throughout the term of chapter 11 proceedings. We have experienced no disruptions in our operations to date and, based upon discussions with a significant number of major suppliers and customers, we do not expect any such disruption during the term of the chapter 11 proceedings. -6- Table of Contents Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful, our intent in filing for chapter 11 protection is to use the powers afforded us under the Bankruptcy Code to effect a financial restructuring that results in a significant reduction in our total indebtedness on a basis that is fair and equitable to all of our creditors and stockholders. We intend to file a plan of reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court no later that June 30, 2008, and hope to confirm that plan by September 30, 2008. We expect that our plan of reorganization will result in a significant reduction in our aggregate indebtedness by means of a conversion of a significant portion of our subordinated debt to equity. We also intend to retain all of our operations, including the medical business. The risks and uncertainties associated with the chapter 11 proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our consolidated financial statements have been presented on a “going concern basis,” as such term is used in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A going concern basis contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our ability to reorganize the Company is subject to risks and uncertainties. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to the amounts or classification of assets or liabilities to reflect these risks and uncertainties. We are dependent on a few major customers. In 2007, the three largest customers of the Rubber Group accounted for 30.5% of the Rubber Group’s net sales, and the three largest customers of the Metals Group accounted for 55.2% of the Metals Group’s net sales. Loss of a significant amount of business from any of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if such business were not substantially replaced by additional business from existing or new customers. Additionally, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if any of our large customers experienced financial difficulties that caused them to delay, or fail to make, payments for goods sold to them. We are highly dependent on the automotive industry. Net sales to customers in the automotive industry represented approximately 78.5%, 83.6%, and 86.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Approximately 40.5% of our net sales in 2007 were to companies that supply electrical wiring and ignition systems to manufacturers of new cars and trucks. Sales to these customers are in part tied to the rate of sales of new vehicles. Further declines in new vehicle sales could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We encounter significant competition. The markets in which we compete are characterized by intense price competition and increasing customer requirements for quality and service. We compete for business primarily on the basis of quality, service, engineering capability, and price. We encounter substantial competition from a large number of domestic and foreign-based manufacturing companies. Our competitors range from small and medium-sized specialized firms to large diversified companies, many of which have resources substantially greater than ours. Additionally, some of our customers have internal manufacturing operations that compete with us. -7- Table of Contents A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting may result in an inability to accurately report our financial results. In connection with management’s evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, management identified significant deficiencies that, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness. Our management concluded that we have incomplete documentation of the internal control system, we lack a procedure for documenting certain internal control activities, interdivisional internal control duties are not completely segregated, and we have been unable to test the operational effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. For more information on our internal controls over financial reporting, please refer to “Controls and Procedures” in Part II, Item 9A(T). We may not be able to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Although its is our intention to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, on April 1, 2008, we filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Because of the additional demands placed on our limited number of accounting professionals due to the bankruptcy filing and the substantial financial resources required to remediate the deficiencies noted above, we may not be able to remediate these weaknesses prior to the initial audit of our internal control over financial reporting by a registered public accounting firm. If we are unable to remediate the weaknesses prior to this audit, we will encounter difficulties in the audit of our internal controls by our outside independent auditors, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and to comply with the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. For more information on our internal controls over financial reporting, please refer to “Controls and Procedures” in Part II, Item 9A(T). Part of our labor force is unionized. At December 31, 2007, employees at the Rubber Group included a total of 224 hourly workers at two plant locations that were subject to collective bargaining agreements, which expire on October 19, 2008, and December 11, 2008. We cannot assure you that our existing union contracts will be successfully renegotiated when they expire. Negotiations have not commenced regarding the extension of those agreements. If we were to experience a strike or work slowdown, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our major customers may be subject to labor interruptions. Many of our customers and the three Detroit-based automobile manufacturers have union contracts with various unions. Protracted strikes or work slowdowns at our customers or at any of the Detroit-based automobile manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the cost and supply of raw materials. We purchase raw materials from various suppliers. While all of our raw materials are available from a number of suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price. Because raw materials in the aggregate constitute approximately 36% of our cost of goods sold, upward movement of -8- Table of Contents raw material prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have generally been successful in passing through to our customers increases in the prices of raw materials, although price increases to our customers have typically lagged behind the price increases from our suppliers. We attempt to minimize the effect of raw material price increases by seeking other sources of supply, substituting alternative materials, and reformulating compounds. We have not experienced any disruption in our production as a result of raw material shortages, but, if any such shortage were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Our past and present business operations and our ownership and operation of real property are subject to extensive and changing environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of wastes, including hazardous wastes, and the protection of the environment. Some of our existing and former locations use and have used substances and generate or have generated or disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous or otherwise are subject to applicable environmental requirements. In addition, we utilize storage tanks and bulk containers for petrochemicals and other substances at our facilities. Based on our experience to date, we do not expect environmental claims or the costs of compliance with federal, state, and local, environmental laws and regulations to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, operating results, or financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, or other unanticipated events will not give rise to expenditures or liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability claims and litigation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability. Many of the components manufactured and sold by us are designed to be used for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to our components or the products in which they are incorporated could result in product failure or an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, consumers. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, our components or the products in which they are incorporated. We cannot assure you that the product liability insurance maintained by us would be available or sufficient to satisfy all claims against us or that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Future product liability claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, or product recalls could result in costly litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our reputation and limit our ability to attract and retain customers. Self-insurance may subject us to possible liability that may be partially or completely uninsured. We maintain insurance coverage for many aspects of our business and operations. Based on our evaluation of the various risks to which we may be exposed, we retain all or a portion of the liability for potential losses because of various deductibles, coverage limits, and retentions. Although there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts, we attempt to limit our liability through, among other things, the ongoing training and education of our employees, the implementation of safety programs, the ongoing testing and evaluation of the safety and suitability of our workplace environments, the development of sound business practices, and the exercise of care and judgment in the negotiation of -9- Table of Contents contracts with our customers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to limit our liability. We are subject to interest rate changes. At December 31, 2007, we had a total of $33,821,000 of outstanding floating-rate debt at interest rates equal to either the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or the prime rate plus a fixed interest component. Currently, we do not purchase derivative financial instruments to hedge or reduce our interest rate risk. As a result, changes in either LIBOR or the prime rate affect the rates at which we borrow funds. 