D. RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal risks are described below. Risks Relating To Our Business Our business is exposed to the risk that adverse economic conditions in our geographical areas will reduce the demand for information technology services and solutions. Demand for information technology services is dependent on customers’ operations, budgets and overall financial condition. Therefore, demand for our services is highly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including availability of credit to us, and consolidation among our target customers in our core sectors. In particular, we are sensitive to economic conditions in our Energy and Transportation segments, which constituted 61.2% of our 2009 revenues. Generalized or localized downturns or inflationary 6 Table of Contents pressures in our key geographical areas could also have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. This is particularly true in Europe, where, in 2009, 47.7% of our revenues were generated, and in North America where, in 2009, 31.4% of our revenues were generated. As much of our business activity is highly concentrated in Spain (with 43.8% of our 2009 revenues generated there), our business and financial condition also is largely dependent upon the general economic conditions in Spain. Spain has recently experienced negative economic conditions, including high unemployment and government debt which we believe could adversely affect our operations in the near future. In addition, if worldwide adverse economic conditions continue or worsen, our expected growth will be adversely affected and revenues could decline. Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. The global capital markets experienced unprecedented disruptions during the past two years, and while they improved in 2009, that improvement has not been uniform. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the global capital markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and have led to a recession which is only now beginning to show signs of abating. The economic instability and uncertainty are affecting the willingness of companies to make capital spending and investment in our information technology services and solutions, therefore, these events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on our revenues. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since the last half of 2007. Continued disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to additional capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, these disruptions may limit the ability of potential purchasers of our services and solutions to obtain financing to purchase our services and solutions resulting in reduction or cancellations of their spending budgets and decreased revenues for Telvent. Our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by continued disruptions in the financial markets. We are particularly sensitive to risks relating to the uncertainties inherent in government and state-owned company contracts, especially in Spain and the United States. A substantial percentage of our revenue is derived from services we provide as a contractor or subcontractor on various projects with governmental entities, including state-owned companies. Although a number of government projects for which we serve as a contractor or subcontractor are planned as multi-year projects, governments normally reconsider the funding of these projects on an annual (or more frequent) basis, particularly in the United States. Generally, these governmental entities may change the scope of, terminate or delay these projects at their convenience. The termination of, or a major reduction in the scope of, a major government project could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, adverse economic changes or slowdowns, changes in government, or political instability in any of the countries and regions in which we operate, particularly in the United States, Spain, Latin America, Asia-Pacific, the Middle-East and Africa, can impact government expenditures on infrastructure projects and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve growth in those geographic areas. We may not be able to manage effectively our expanding operations or integrate our acquired businesses successfully, which may impede our growth or negatively impact our performance. We grew significantly in 2006 and 2007 and completed the acquisition of DTN on October 28, 2008. Such growth has placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our managerial and operational resources. To accommodate our growth and future acquisitions and also to fulfill our obligations as a United States reporting company, we must implement new or upgraded operating and financial systems, procedures and controls throughout many different locations, including processes to address internal controls, trade barriers, foreign corrupt practices and receivables collection. The success of any acquisition we make also will depend on our ability to integrate personnel and acquired assets. These efforts may not be successful. Our failure to expand and integrate these systems and procedures efficiently could cause our expenses to grow and our revenues to decline or grow more slowly than expected. Our inability to integrate successfully any businesses we acquire could cause us not to realize the degree or timing of benefits we expect and would impair our ability to achieve our growth strategy. 7 Table of Contents We may not be able successfully to extend sales of our solutions into other geographic areas, which may impede our growth. Part of our growth strategy is predicated on extending sales in our segments to all of the geographic areas in which we currently operate. There are unique challenges in each geographic location in which we operate and extending the geographical reach of our segments may be more difficult than we anticipate. In addition, in certain of our segments (particularly Transportation), customers are local in nature and thus, to extend our segments into new geographic areas, we will need to develop relationships with new customers. To the extent that we are unable to do so, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy. We may need additional capital, which, if obtained, could cause us to take steps that could dilute the value of our shareholders’ investments, increase our indebtedness, or both. As discussed below under “Risks Relating to Being Part of the Abengoa Group,” our credit arrangements with Abengoa are one of our primary sources of borrowed capital for our working capital or other needs. Abengoa may, at its option, elect not to lend us funds under this arrangement. In addition, Abengoa currently provides us with credit support in connection with some of our performance bonds and some of our lending arrangements and also periodically guarantees our lines of credit and our trade letters of credit with respect to some of our projects. Any refusal or inability of Abengoa to provide us with funding under the credit arrangement or to provide us with guarantees or credit support, because of financial constraints on Abengoa or otherwise, could significantly curtail our ability to access capital and bonding facilities and could have a material adverse effect on us. As discussed below under “Risks Relating to the Public Market for Our Shares — A decision by Abengoa, our current largest individual shareholder, regarding the disposition of the balance of its holdings in our shares, could adversely affect our operations and the price of and market for our shares.” Abengoa currently holds, indirectly, 40% of our outstanding shares. If we were to cease to be a member of the Abengoa Group, we cannot assure you that we would be able to replace the credit arrangements we currently have in place with Abengoa with other arrangements on terms equally favorable to us, if at all and our failure to be able to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our ability to obtain new financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other needs depends on many factors beyond our control. It is possible that as a result of circumstances outside of our control, such as recessions in the key geographies or markets in which we do business or instability in the financial markets, such as rapid changes in exchange rates, we may require new external financing in order to fund all of our operating, capital expenditure and investment requirements. Our ability to arrange for such financing and the cost of such financing will be dependent on numerous factors outside of our control, including: • general economic and capital market conditions, including exchange rates; • the availability of credit from banks or other lenders; • investor confidence in us; • investor views about the information technology business and the key countries in which we do business; and • provisions of tax and securities laws that may be applicable to our efforts to raise capital. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness and other financial obligations may reduce our operating flexibility. The agreements governing indebtedness and other financial obligations applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries contain various negative and affirmative covenants, including the requirement to maintain certain specified financial ratios. These covenants reduce our operating flexibility as they limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create or incur liens; sell assets; make restricted payments, loans and investments; make capital expenditures; liquidate or dissolve the applicable companies; enter into any spin-off, transformation, merger, or acquisition, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the applicable agreement; and change the nature or scope of the lines of business. If we or any of our applicable subsidiaries violate any of these covenants or requirements, a default may result and the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us would be limited. As discussed below under “Risks Relating to the Public Market for Our Shares — A decision by Abengoa, our current largest shareholder, regarding the disposition of the balance of its holdings in our shares, could adversely affect our operations and the price of and market for our shares,” Abengoa currently holds, indirectly, 40% of our outstanding shares. We cannot assure you that, if we were to cease to be a member of the Abengoa Group, we would be able to replace these agreements on terms as favorable to us, if at all, and our failure to be able to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to implement appropriate hedging strategies to protect against future movements in currency rates between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar and other currencies, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures. In 2009, approximately 59.6% of our revenues were recorded in Euros, approximately 29.7% of our revenues were recorded in U.S. Dollars and the remainder was recorded in other currencies. If we fail adequately to hedge any of our foreign currency risk, we could be exposed to adverse foreign exchange rate changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our relationships with our alliance partners may not be successful, which could adversely affect our business and the implementation of our growth strategy. In certain market sectors, we depend on alliances and value-added reseller relationships to generate sales and manage existing projects. We have an agreement with Echelon for the smart metering management market. We also have an agreement with Larson & Tubro in India in the Energy segment. In the United States and Canada, we have alliances with the Environmental Systems Research Institute for geographic information systems, OSISoft for data warehousing solutions and Symantec for security-related solutions. These agreements are for renewable one-year terms and are terminable by either party upon notice. If these relationships are not successful or if the agreements are not renewed under favorable terms, our business and growth in those countries could be negatively affected. Problems with our third-party technology suppliers could create delays in our delivery of services, solutions and systems to our customers. Some of our software, solutions and systems use other items supplied by third-party technology companies such as operating systems, databases, protocols, interfaces, middleware and graphics engines. In these cases we have long-term agreements, usually including royalty payments, to embed these third-party solutions and functionalities in our solutions and systems. If we are not successful in maintaining these third-party technology supply agreements, we could encounter delays in our ability to deliver promised functionality to our customers while we investigate and install substitute technologies in our solutions and systems. These delays could adversely affect our business. Problems caused by subcontractors to whom we have subcontracted parts of the scope of supply for a project could create delays in our delivery of services, solutions and systems to our customers and cause us to be in default under our contracts with our customers. The scope of supply of some of our project contracts includes services, equipment or software which we subcontract to subcontractors. If a subcontractor is late in delivering the goods and services to be supplied or delivers goods or services which are not in compliance with the requirements of the subcontract, that can cause us to be in default under the contract with the customer. To the extent that we cannot transfer all of the risk to the subcontractor or are not able to be fully indemnified by the subcontractor, we may be subject to a claim by the customer as a result of a problem caused by a subcontractor that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The failure of our mission-critical information technology solutions or our customers’ systems could expose us to liability. We provide real-time information management services and solutions for our customers’ applications that monitor and control mission-critical operational and management functions. In some cases, these systems protect product inventories from problems such as theft, leakage or spills and protect the environment and public safety. Some of our solutions also minimize outage and waste issues. If a customer’s system were to experience a critical failure or outage as a direct result of a defect in one of our services or solutions, whether those solutions are our own or those portions of the services and solutions supplied through integrated third-party technology partners, we may be subject to claims for injuries or other damages. Our insurance may not be sufficient or may not apply to any exposure we have resulting from this type of solutions failure and we may not have adequate recourse against our third-party technology partners. Our operations depend on our facilities located throughout the world and are subject to risks that could disrupt the services that we provide. In providing our services, we operate out of numerous facilities worldwide. Our facilities and operations could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, computer viruses or public health concerns. A major catastrophe, such as an earthquake or other natural disaster at any of our sites, or significant political unrest, war or terrorist activity in any of the areas where we conduct operations, could result in a prolonged interruption of, or disruption to, the services we provide to our 9 Table of Contents customers. We may not be able to provide our services in the manner required by our customers if any of the foregoing occur, which would damage our reputation, business and financial condition. We depend substantially on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued growth and success depend in large part on the managerial and technical skills of the members of our senior management, particularly Manuel Sánchez, Larry Stack, Ignacio González, David Jardine, José Montoya, José María Flores, José Ignacio del Barrio, Cristobal Ramos, Luis Rancé, Marcio Leonardo, Dai Yue, Javier Garoz, Bárbara Zubiría, Manuel Fernández, Carmen Rodríguez, Lidia Garcia, Aránzazu Caja, John Leiferman and Carlos Delgado and the success of our expansion efforts depends on significant management attention to integration and coordination. Any loss of services of any of our senior management may negatively affect our business. We depend on the services of our technically-skilled employees and may not be able to attract or retain the employees we need. During periods in which demand for technically-skilled employees is great, we may experience significant employee turnover. These individuals are in high demand and we may not be able to attract or retain the staff we need, which could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to compete effectively, which would harm our business. We compete on our ability to provide innovative solutions to our customers. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative solutions for our customers at competitive prices, we will not be able to compete successfully. There are many companies that provide competing solutions in the business segments and in the geographic areas in which we operate. The competition we face is intense and we expect it to increase in the future. Increased competition could result in: • price reductions and lower revenues; • loss of customers; • lower than anticipated growth; and/or • loss of market share. In addition, our competitors may develop services and solutions that are better than ours, that are more appealing to customers or that achieve greater market acceptance. We compete with large engineering and industrial firms and small sector-driven specialized firms on a geographic and customer basis, including General Electric, Honeywell, Affiliated Computer Services Inc., Indra Sistemas, S.A., SICE (Sociedad Ibérica de Construcciones Eléctricas, S.A.) and Transcore Inc. (a subsidiary of Roper Industries). Many of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Also, some of our competitors have established offshore operations in countries such as India and China in order to reduce the costs of research and development and engineering services for their projects. These advantages may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, changes in customer requirements or acquisition opportunities than we can and also reduce their costs. It is also possible that new competitors may emerge and acquire significant market share. In addition, we often face significant competition from construction companies that also provide solutions similar to ours. To the extent these construction companies build an infrastructure project, they have an advantage relative to us in competing for the value-added information technology services and solutions accompanying the infrastructure project. Our acquisitions and joint venture strategy involve risks and uncertainties that may harm our business or cause it not to perform as expected. As part of our business strategy, we continually review potential acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or other investments that we expect will complement our existing business. In particular, we plan to continue to rely on potential acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other investments to help us fuel our growth by enhancing the value-added services and solutions that we can offer to our installed customer base. However, we do not know for certain that we will be able to identify suitable joint ventures, acquisitions, alliances or other investments at particular times, or that we will be able to successfully close these transactions. 10 Table of Contents In addition, any acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or other investments we pursue may result in numerous risks and uncertainties, including: • the risks associated with entering geographic or business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; • the diversion of management attention from our other business concerns; • the risk that an acquired business, joint venture, strategic alliance, or investment will not perform as expected or that it will expose us to unforeseen liabilities; and/or • the risk that our due diligence reviews of the target business may fail to evaluate accurately the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the target business, which may create disputes with the sellers of the target business and/or require us to record an impairment loss. To the extent we recognize goodwill and intangible assets in any acquisition, joint venture or strategic alliance and we later deem that goodwill or intangible assets to be impaired, we will recognize losses that will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our acquisitions give rise to deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Recoverability of these assets depends on our ability to generate, in future years, sufficient taxable income to make use of these deferred tax assets before their expiration dates. If it is more likely than not that such assets won’t be recovered, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against them, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in technology could adversely affect our business and negatively impact our competitive position. The markets for services and solutions change rapidly because of changes in customer requirements, technological innovations, new solution introductions, prices, industry standards and domestic and international economic factors. New solutions and technologies may render existing information technologies, services or technology infrastructures obsolete, excessively costly or otherwise unmarketable. If we are unable to introduce and integrate new technologies into our services and solutions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our competitive position will suffer and our prospects for growth will be impaired. In addition, our strategy to increase our gross margins through increased sales of higher value-added, advanced applications would be impaired. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may reduce the value of our services, solutions and brand and may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. While we currently hold or have pending a large number of registered trademarks and solution names that we believe reduce the risk of third-party infringement, we currently hold few material patents or registered copyrights, and we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, copyright and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual agreements, and technical measures to protect our rights in our proprietary technology. These measures may not be sufficient to protect our proprietary technology from third-party infringement and could subject us to increased competition or cause us to lose market share. In addition, these measures may not protect us from the claims of employees and other third parties. We also face risks to the protection of our proprietary technology because our solutions are sold in markets such as the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America that provide less protection for intellectual property than is provided under U.S. or Spanish laws. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property could weaken our competitive position, reduce the value of our services and solutions and brand, and harm our operating results. Labor and employment laws in Spain and other geographic areas in which we operate may make it difficult for us to reduce our workforce if we deem it advisable. Approximately 57% of our workforce is located in Spain. With our acquisition of Matchmind in 2007, the number of our employees located in Spain increased significantly. Spanish law places significant limitations on and imposes a number of procedural requirements for an employer’s ability to reduce its workforce through layoffs or otherwise. These provisions of Spanish law could make it more difficult, expensive and time-consuming for us to reduce our workforce at a time when we consider it in our best interest to do so. In addition, approximately 8% of our workforce is located in Latin America and approximately 7% of our workforce is located in Canada, where labor and employment laws regarding workforce reductions are more restrictive than is typical in the United States. Approximately 24% of our workforce is located in the United States. Our business may suffer if we are sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of others. In the future, third parties may assert infringement claims alleging infringement by our current or future services or solutions. These claims may result in protracted and costly litigation, may subject us to liability if we are found to have infringed third parties’ 11 Table of Contents intellectual property rights, and, regardless of the merits or ultimate outcome, may divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. We may adopt an equity-based compensation plan that may be dilutive to current shareholders’ ownership interest in our shares or may adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our shares. In 2004 and prior years, under a plan established by Abengoa, certain of our employees, including members of our management team, entered into agreements with Abengoa to purchase our shares. In addition, in 2006, members of our senior management participated in a stock purchase plan involving Abengoa’s shares. In the future, we may adopt an equity-based compensation plan that may be dilutive to current shareholders’ ownership interest in our shares or may adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our shares. Our board of directors and our shareholders have approved an amendment to our Extraordinary Variable Compensation Plan to permit the plan’s participants to elect to receive certain of their awards in the form of our ordinary shares, rather than in cash. Cash awards will be converted into the number of our shares determined by dividing the amount of the cash award by $18.50. An aggregate of 370,962 of our shares will be available for award under the plan. On September 15, 2009, we purchased those 370,962 shares from Telvent Corporation, S.L. at a purchase price of $18.50 per share. Until the shares are issued pursuant to the plan, under Spanish law they will be treated, and will count for purposes of determining a quorum for matters presented for a vote of shareholders, as issued but not outstanding. Our future results could be adversely affected by an impairment of the value of certain intangible assets. The assets listed in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009, include, among other things, goodwill valued at approximately € 234.4 million and other intangible assets valued at approximately € 184.4 million. The applicable accounting standards require that goodwill is not amortized, but rather is subject to impairment testing annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. Intangible assets that are not considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized using the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The carrying amount of these assets is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value (usually discounted cash flow) of the impaired asset. If our goodwill was deemed to be impaired in whole or in part due to our failure to achieve our goals, we could be required to reduce or write off such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Risks Relating to Being Part of the Abengoa Group Abengoa, our current largest individual shareholder, is in a position to significantly influence matters requiring a shareholder vote, and this ownership concentration may adversely affect the market price of our shares as well as the ability of our other shareholders to influence matters subject to a shareholder vote. Abengoa currently owns, indirectly, 40% voting interest in our outstanding shares and has significant influence over all matters submitted for shareholder vote, as well as the ability to call an extraordinary meeting of shareholders (which, under Spanish law, a holder of 5% or more of issued shares can do). At any such meeting, or at our ordinary general meeting of shareholders, as a result of Abengoa’s current ownership of our shares, Abengoa has “de facto” control over: • election of our directors; • any decision to effect certain amendments to our bylaws and other organizational documents; • our decisions regarding debt incurrence, stock issuance (including the abolition of preemptive rights for specific stock issuances) and the declaration and payments of dividends; • any decision to approve or reject any merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets, and • any decision to increase our capital. This concentration of ownership of our shares could delay or prevent mergers, tender offers or other purchases of our shares. Therefore, this concentration of ownership may adversely affect our share price or the liquidity of our shares. Abengoa may choose to vote in a manner that is not consistent with the desires of the other owners of our shares or in a manner that the other owners of our shares do not consider to be in their best interest. In addition, any significant change in Abengoa’s ownership structure could have a material effect on the manner in which Abengoa exercises its voting power. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to implement our business strategy may be negatively affected by Abengoa’s financial condition, its other business opportunities and its agreements with its lenders. Although we are not directly responsible for the repayment of any loans made by third parties to Abengoa, Abengoa’s current credit facility contains and its credit facilities in the future may contain covenants between the Abengoa Group and its lenders that take into account our financial performance and financial condition as a consolidated entity. Certain kinds of transactions that we may wish to undertake might require the consent or approval of Abengoa’s lenders in order for Abengoa to avoid a default under its agreement with those lenders because of the indirect restrictions imposed on us by the terms of Abengoa’s credit facility. These indirect restrictions arise out of covenants made by Abengoa in its credit facility that require Abengoa to ensure that none of its subsidiaries, including us, grant security interests in or dispose of assets, make loans or otherwise extend credit, or enter into merger or combination transactions, other than in the ordinary course of their respective businesses. These covenants have the indirect effect of restricting our ability to take any of these actions or engage in any of these transactions, even if we consider them to be in our interest, because Abengoa has agreed with its lenders to ensure that we do not do so. In addition, Abengoa’s credit facility limits Abengoa’s ability to incur debt as calculated on a consolidated basis to include Abengoa and its subsidiaries, including us. These restrictions on Abengoa could have the indirect effect of limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness when it might otherwise be in our interest to do so. Our ability to implement our business strategy could be affected adversely by Abengoa’s compliance with its obligations under its credit facilities. As our contracts with Abengoa were negotiated between parties under common control, it is possible we may have been able to obtain better terms from third parties or may not be able to replace them with equally-favorable arrangements in the future. Our contracts with Abengoa were negotiated between parties under common control. It is possible that we may have been able to obtain better terms from third parties, and that the terms we received under the contracts with Abengoa may increase our expenses and reduce our net income compared to the terms of contracts we might have obtained from third parties. The most important of these contracts are our credit arrangement and service agreements with Abengoa. Our credit arrangement with Abengoa is one of our primary sources of borrowings. In addition, we recognized revenues in 2009 of € 54.5 million from services that we and our subsidiaries provided to Abengoa, primarily for the provision of communications, IT and related services; and we recognized expenses in 2009 of € 14.2 million related to services, supplies and leased facilities provided by Abengoa to us. We have not attempted to negotiate similar arrangements with unaffiliated parties and do not know whether third parties would enter into such arrangements with us on more or less favorable terms, if at all. Consequently, if these existing agreements were terminated for any reason, we cannot be certain that we would be able to enter into equally-favorable arrangements with third parties, if at all. Our inability to replace these arrangements on equally-favorable terms could reduce our net income, limit our available borrowings and adversely affect our ability to achieve our growth objectives. In connection with the reduction of Abengoa’s percentage ownership of our shares, we have engaged with Abengoa in a strategic review of our existing arrangements and have sold to them, effective January 1, 2010, the business that used to provide IT and related services to Abengoa. Abengoa is not required to provide any security for the funds we lend to it under our credit arrangement and any such loans will be treated as subordinated debt under Spanish law, which may limit our ability to be repaid and impair our financial condition in the event of Abengoa’s insolvency or bankruptcy. Under our credit arrangements with Abengoa, we may lend up to € 155.8 million at any one time to Abengoa for a period not to exceed one year. These arrangements are unsecured and may provide Abengoa with funds on a more favorable basis than otherwise available to it from non-affiliated third parties. We may not be repaid or receive the interest we have earned on those funds. Abengoa has significant other indebtedness currently outstanding, some or all of which may be secured or otherwise senior to us upon Abengoa’s insolvency or bankruptcy, which would also make it more difficult for us to be repaid upon any insolvency or bankruptcy. According to Spanish insolvency law, any loan between an insolvent or bankrupt company that forms part of a group and any of its affiliated companies will be considered to be a subordinated loan for the purposes of the bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings. As a result of that subordination, payment of that affiliate loan shall be subject to the prior payment by the insolvent or bankrupt company of its other indebtedness and trade payables that are not expressly subordinated by law. Accordingly, under Spanish law, any money we loan to Abengoa may be considered to be subordinated debt of Abengoa in the event of Abengoa’s insolvency or bankruptcy. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating To Our Organization Under Spanish Law We are a Spanish corporation and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us in U.S. domestic courts. We are a corporation organized under the laws of the Kingdom of Spain. In addition, most of the members of our board of directors and most of our senior management are residents of, and most of their assets are located in, jurisdictions outside of the United States. As a result, even though we have appointed CT Corporation System as our agent for service of process, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons regarding matters arising under the U.S. securities laws, or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts based upon these laws. Our counsel has advised us that it is doubtful that a lawsuit based upon U.S. securities laws could be brought in an original action in Spain and that it is doubtful that a foreign judgment based on the U.S. securities laws could be enforced in Spain. Our counsel has also advised us that the courts of Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain have exclusive jurisdiction for challenging corporate resolutions, while the general rules of jurisdiction and international treaties will apply to any other claims by shareholders against us. Provisions of our bylaws and Spanish law significantly influence the timing and amount of any dividends that we may pay in the future. Our bylaws and Spanish law require shareholder approval in order for us to declare dividends. If we declare dividends in the future, we may not be able to pay them more frequently than annually due to certain provisions of Spanish law. Although we will declare any dividends in Euros as required under Spanish law, we intend to pay dividends in U.S. Dollars. Any holders of our shares outside of the United States may incur costs associated with receiving dividends in U.S. Dollars. Our ability to pay any dividends and the effect of any such dividends on our financial position will be affected by changes in exchange rates. The amount of the dividends we may pay will be based on a calculation of our net income in Euros in accordance with Spanish GAAP. Also, Abengoa can exercise significant influence over any decision relating to the declaration and payment of dividends. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our bylaws and Spanish law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. laws. In particular, our shareholders do not have appraisal rights in the case of a merger or consolidation. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our bylaws and by Spanish law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the typical rights and responsibilities of shareholders in U.S. corporations. For example, under Spanish law, we are required to set aside 10% of our net income as a legal reserve until the balance of the reserve is equivalent to at least 20% of our issued share capital. In addition, Spanish law makes it more difficult for us to pay dividends more frequently than annually and Spanish law does not grant appraisal rights to a corporation’s shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the corporation. At our ordinary general meeting, shareholders are asked to approve the actions of our management, the financial statements of our previous fiscal year and the allocation of our net income and loss (and any other issues that may be presented by the Board). If our shareholders do not approve our Spanish GAAP financial statements, we cannot file our annual accounts with the Mercantile Registry of Madrid. In certain circumstances, if the annual accounts are not registered within one year from the end of the relevant fiscal year, we would be precluded from registering any other resolutions with the Mercantile Registry until we have filed our annual accounts. Additionally, pursuant to our bylaws and the Spanish Corporation Law, shareholders have preemptive rights to subscribe for any new securities issued by us, including the ordinary shares. These preemptive rights may be voluntarily waived by our shareholders or may be abolished in certain circumstances if our shareholders pass a resolution at a shareholders’ meeting in accordance with Article 159 of Spanish Corporation Law. Our ability to raise funds through the sale of ordinary shares or other securities in the future, our ability to use our ordinary shares or other securities to make acquisitions, and our ability to provide management with equity-based compensation, could be adversely affected by these preemptive rights and our ability to have these preemptive rights voluntarily waived or abolished by our shareholders. Provisions of our bylaws and Spanish law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore prevent payment of any expected acquisition premium on the price of our shares. Provisions of Spanish corporation and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making it more difficult for another entity to merge with or acquire us. Further, as is the case in civil law jurisdictions generally, a merger or takeover in Spain is subject to substantially more administrative process than would be the case in a typical U.S. jurisdiction. This additional administrative process could protract or make more expensive the process of effecting such a transaction. Under Spanish law, directors of a corporation may be elected to serve for terms of up to six years and we have adopted five-year terms for our directors, although actions taken at the 14 Table of Contents general shareholders’ meeting may result in the directors being removed at any time. As a result of these five-year terms, not all of our directors will be elected each year. This may have the result of delaying or making more expensive an attempt to effect a change of control of our company. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Spanish law. This could cause our shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Risks Relating to the Public Market for Our Shares As a result of Abengoa’s sale of our shares in 2009, we will likely lose our foreign private issuer exemption effective January 1, 2011. As a result of the sale, on November 2, 2009, by Abengoa’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Telvent Corporation, S.L., of 4,192,374 of our ordinary shares, including the 542,374 shares purchased by the underwriters pursuant to their exercise of their overallotment option, we will likely cease to be eligible to report as a “foreign private issuer” for purposes of the U.S. securities laws as of January 1, 2011. If we are no longer a foreign private issuer, we will be subject to substantial additional disclosure, reporting, and governance requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the listing rules of The NASDAQ Global Select Market (the “NASDAQ Rules”), which would result in additional expense and the diversion of senior management attention from our business strategy. As a foreign private issuer, we are generally exempt from certain reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, as well as the provisions of the Exchange Act and the NASDAQ Rules governing the solicitation of proxies and the provision of proxy statements and other materials to shareholders prior to shareholder meetings. We will likely cease to qualify as a foreign private issuer, effective as of January 1, 2011, following the November 2009 sale of 3,650,000 shares by Telvent Corporation, S.L. If we no longer qualify as a foreign private issuer, we would be subject to the substantially more extensive proxy disclosure requirements imposed by the Exchange Act and the NASDAQ Rules, and would be required to file annual, quarterly, and periodic reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K within the time periods required by the Exchange Act, which are significantly shorter than the time periods required of foreign private issuers for the less-extensive periodic reporting required of them. We would also be subject to Regulation FD of the Exchange Act, regulating the selective disclosure of non-public information, and our directors, executive officers and affiliates would be subject to the disclosure and other requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of their ownership of and transactions in our shares. Further, we are currently exempt from the corporate governance provisions of the Exchange Act and the NASDAQ Rules that would require our board of directors to include a majority of independent members and to maintain independent audit, nomination, and compensation committees, although we voluntarily comply with such rules. The NASDAQ Rules also provide an exemption to foreign private issuers who follow their home country laws from the requirement that shareholders be given the opportunity to vote on equity compensation plans and material revisions thereto; should we fail to qualify as a foreign private issuer, we would be required to submit any equity compensation plans to a vote of our shareholders. Compliance with the foregoing additional disclosure and compliance requirements would involve substantial initial and on-going expense, and implementing our compliance with these requirements would require substantial senior management time and attention that otherwise would be spent implementing our business strategy. Our shares may be affected by volume fluctuations, may fluctuate significantly in price and our liquidity may be affected by our current largest shareholder. Our shares are currently traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The average daily trading volume of our shares during 2009 was 75,483 shares. The high and low closing price for our shares for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 was U.S. $38.98 and U.S. $9.97 respectively. Our shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares without regard to our operating performance. The price of our shares may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including changes in our business, operations and prospects, developments in patents and other proprietary rights and general market and economic conditions. Abengoa and our senior management currently own approximately 44% of our outstanding shares. Consequently, a significant portion of our shares may not be traded frequently, if at all. In addition to the recent continuing stress and volatility in the global capital markets generally the public equity markets for the securities of information technology companies have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of the securities of information technology companies, and which may be unrelated to operating performance or prospects. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects from time to time may be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. Any of these events could result in a material decline in the prevailing market prices of our shares, and could prevent our shareholders from recouping their investments in our shares or selling their shares at a profit. 15 Table of Contents Future sales by our shareholders of a substantial number of our shares in the public market could adversely affect the price of our shares. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our shares, the market price of our shares could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. The shares that we sold in our initial public offering are eligible for immediate resale in the public market without restrictions, and the shares our affiliated shareholders hold may also be sold in the public market in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Securities Act and applicable lock-up agreements and provided that the circumstances in which they are offered or sold in Spain do not constitute an offer of securities under Spanish law. Of the 4,847,059 ordinary shares that we sold in our private placement transaction completed on October 28, 2008, Abengoa has previously sold, pursuant to a registration statement we filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on December 4, 2008 and which became effective on February 15, 2009, all of the 3,576,470 shares that it so acquired. The remaining 1,270,589 ordinary shares that we sold in our private placement transaction are eligible for resale to the public. All 4,192,374 shares, including the 542,374 shares purchased by the underwriters pursuant to their exercise of their overallotment option, previously sold pursuant to a registration statement we filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on October 2, 2009 and which became effective on October 27, 2009 are eligible for immediate resale in the public market without restrictions. A decision by Abengoa, our largest individual shareholder, regarding the disposition of the balance of its holdings in our shares, could adversely affect our operations and the price of and market for our shares. Abengoa holds, indirectly, 40% of our outstanding shares and is our largest individual shareholder. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether or not Abengoa will determine to sell any or all of the remainder of our shares, or the timing of any such sale by Abengoa. The process of evaluating a potential sale by Abengoa of the balance of its holdings in our shares, whether or not a sale ultimately is consummated, could divert significant management time and attention away from the operation of our business. The commencement of such a transaction, or the perception that such a transaction may occur, may have an adverse effect on the market price for our shares, the uncertainty that may result in our customers delaying or canceling the award of contracts, our employees leaving Telvent and/or our credit and bonding facilities becoming more difficult to arrange or renew. If we cease to be treated as a member of the Abengoa Group, we cannot assure you that we would be able to replace the service agreements and credit agreements we currently have in place with Abengoa with other arrangements on terms equally favorable to us, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In the event that Abengoa sells all or a portion of its remaining holdings in our shares to another party, our other shareholders may not be eligible to participate in the sale, and any premium paid by the acquirer for the shares it purchases from Abengoa would not benefit our other shareholders. As a result of dispositions of our shares by Abengoa, we ceased to be a “controlled company” for purposes of The NASDAQ Rules, and we need to comply with the corporate governance requirements of The NASDAQ Global Select Market. After giving effect to the sale by Abengoa’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Telvent Corporation, S.L., of 4,192,374 of our ordinary shares, including the 542,374 shares purchased by the underwriters pursuant to their exercise of their overallotment option, on November 2, 2009, Abengoa indirectly owns 40% of our outstanding shares and we therefore are no longer considered a “controlled company” under The NASDAQ Rules. Therefore, we must comply with the provisions of The NASDAQ Rules that require a majority of our board of directors to be independent and that we have nominating and compensation committees comprised entirely of independent directors, which we already voluntarily comply with. Failure to comply could result in our shares being delisted. Any delisting of our shares would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and trading market for our shares. You will not be able to trade our shares on any exchange outside the United States. Our shares are only listed in the United States on The NASDAQ Global Select Market and we have no plans to list any of our shares in Spain or any other jurisdiction. As a result, a holder of our shares outside of the United States may not be able to effect transactions in our shares as readily as it could if our shares were listed on an exchange in that holder’s home jurisdiction. 