Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company Must Restructure, Refinance, or Repay its Secured Debt and its Senior Subordinated Notes. As more fully described in the “Liquidity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7, we are currently in default of our secured debt and our Senior Subordinated Notes. In addition, on April 6, 2007, an entity that holds $4,000,000 of the real estate term loan accelerated the maturity of its loan. On March 9, 2007, we agreed with holders of 97.1% of the Senior Subordinated Notes upon the terms of a forbearance agreement that, if executed, would provide that the holders would abstain, during the six-month period following execution of the agreement, from taking any action against us to exercise their rights under the indenture governing the Senior Subordinated Notes. The forbearance agreement is intended to allow us to attempt to remedy the payment defaults that now exist on the Senior Subordinated Notes in an orderly fashion. The forbearance agreement has not been signed because we have not been able to resolve the cross-default and covenant default on our secured debt. In furtherance of the intent of the forbearance agreement, we are actively pursuing one or more of the following strategic alternatives: (1) a refinancing of our current indebtedness, (2) a sale of assets of the Company, and (3) a sale of the Company. To assist us in these efforts we are retaining the services of W.Y. Campbell & Company, a Detroit-based investment banking firm. If we are unable to restructure, refinance, or repay our secured debt and our Senior Subordinated Notes, we may seek protection under chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in order to permit us to continue to operate our business in an orderly fashion until a restructuring of our indebtedness is consummated. Our consolidated financial statements have been presented on a going-concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our ability to restructure, refinance, or repay our indebtedness is subject to risks and -5- Table of Contents uncertainties. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to the amounts or classification of assets or liabilities to reflect these risks and uncertainties. We are dependent on a few major customers. In 2006, the three largest customers of the Rubber Group accounted for 36.5% of the Rubber Group’s net sales, and the three largest customers of the Metals Group accounted for 51.2% of the Metals Group’s net sales. Loss of a significant amount of business from any of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if such business were not substantially replaced by additional business from existing or new customers. Additionally, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if any of our large customers experienced financial difficulties that caused them to delay, or fail to make, payments for goods sold to them. We are highly dependent on the automotive industry. Net sales to customers in the automotive industry represented approximately 83.6%, 86.3%, and 88.7% of our consolidated net sales in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Approximately 45.3% of our net sales in 2006 were to companies that supply electrical wiring and ignition systems to manufacturers of new cars and trucks. Sales to these customers are highly sensitive to the rate of sales of new vehicles. A decline in new vehicle sales could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We encounter significant competition. The markets in which we compete are characterized by intense price competition and increasing customer requirements for quality and service. We compete for business primarily on the basis of quality, service, engineering capability, and price. We encounter substantial competition from a large number of domestic and foreign-based manufacturing companies. Our competitors range from small and medium-sized specialized firms to large diversified companies, many of which have resources substantially greater than ours. Additionally, some of our customers have internal manufacturing operations that compete with us. Our high level of debt may adversely affect our financial and operating flexibility. Because we have substantial borrowings for a company our size and because those borrowings require us to make substantial interest and principal payments, any negative event may have a greater adverse effect upon us than it would have upon a company of the same size that has less debt. For more information about our debt, please refer to the “Liquidity” section of “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7. Part of our labor force is unionized. At December 31, 2006, employees at the Rubber Group included a total of 277 hourly workers at two plant locations that were subject to collective bargaining agreements, which expire on October 21, 2007, and December 11, 2008. We cannot assure you that our existing union contracts will be successfully renegotiated upon their expirations. Negotiations have not commenced regarding the expiration of those agreements. If we were to experience a strike or work slowdown, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. -6- Table of Contents We are subject to labor interruptions at major customers. Delphi Corporation and the three largest Detroit-based domestic automobile manufacturers have union contracts with various unions. Strikes or work slowdowns at Delphi or at any of the three largest domestic automobile manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the cost and supply of raw materials. We purchase raw materials from various suppliers. While all of our raw materials are available from a number of suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price. Because raw materials in the aggregate constitute approximately 36% of our cost of goods sold, these fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have generally been successful in passing through to our customers increases in the prices of raw materials, although price increases to our customers have typically lagged behind the price increases from our suppliers. We attempt to minimize the effect of raw material price increases by seeking other sources of supply, substituting alternative materials, and reformulating compounds. We have not experienced any disruption in our production as a result of raw material shortages, but, if any such shortage were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Our past and present business operations and our ownership and operation of real property are subject to extensive and changing environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of wastes, including solid and hazardous wastes, and the protection of the environment. Some of our existing and former locations use and have used substances and generate or have generated or disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous or otherwise are subject to applicable environmental requirements. In addition, we utilize storage tanks and bulk containers for petrochemicals and other substances at our facilities. Based on our experience to date, we do not expect environmental claims or the costs of compliance with federal, state, and local, environmental laws and regulations to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, operating results, or financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, or other unanticipated events will not give rise to expenditures or liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to product liability claims and litigation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability litigation that is inherent to the manufacture, marketing, and use of the components that we produce. Many of the components manufactured and sold by us are designed to be used for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to our components or the products in which they are incorporated could result in product failure or an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, consumers. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, our components or the products in which they are incorporated. We cannot assure you that the product liability insurance maintained by us would be available or sufficient to satisfy all claims against us or that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Future product liability claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, or product recalls -7- Table of Contents could result in costly litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our reputation and limit our ability to attract and retain customers. Self-insurance may subject us to possible liability that may be partially or completely uninsured. We maintain insurance coverage for certain aspects of our business and operations. Based on our evaluation of the various risks to which we may be exposed, we have elected to retain all or a portion of the potential losses that we could experience through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions. These forms of self-insurance subject us to possible liability that may be partially or completely uninsured. We attempt to limit our liability through, among other things, the ongoing training and education of our employees, the implementation of safety programs, the ongoing testing and evaluation of the safety and suitability of its workplace environments, the development of sound business practices, and the exercise of care and judgment in the negotiation of contracts. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to limit our liability. We are subject to interest rate changes. At December 31, 2006, we had a total of $34,790,000 of outstanding floating rate debt at interest rates equal to either the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or the prime rate plus a fixed interest component. Currently, we do not purchase derivative financial instruments to hedge or reduce our interest rate risk. As a result, changes in either LIBOR or the prime rate affect the rates at which we borrow funds under these agreements. 