ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FAILURE TO REFINANCE OUR DEBT MAY RESULT IN OUR REORGANIZATION. Our revolving line of credit matures on June 30, 2006, and it will automatically be extended for one year unless we are notified by the lender at least 60 days prior to June 30, 2006, that the line of credit will not be extended. If the line of credit is not extended, the equipment term loans and the real estate term loan, which have maturity dates of June 30, 2007, will instead mature on June 30, 2006. We have received proposals from a number of lenders, including our existing lenders, for new secured financing to replace our existing secured loans. We have chosen to move forward with two new, prospective lenders who are completing their due diligence investigation and preparing documentation relating to the proposed refinancing. Accordingly, the prospective lenders have not yet provided us with binding commitments for the proposed refinancing. Although we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete a refinancing of our secured loans, we believe that we will be able to refinance our secured loans on or before June 30, 2006. If we are unable to complete the refinancing of our secured loans on or before June 30, 2006, we may be forced to seek relief from our creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON A FEW MAJOR CUSTOMERS. In 2005, the three largest customers of the Rubber Group, accounted for 42.9% of the Rubber Group's net sales, and the three largest customers of the Metals Group accounted for 61.1% of the Metals Group's net sales. Loss of a significant amount of business from any of our large customers would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition if such business were not substantially replaced by additional business from existing or new customers. Additionally, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if any of our large customers experience financial difficulties that cause them to delay, or fail to make, payments for goods sold to them. WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY. Net sales to customers in the automotive industry represented approximately 86.3%, 88.7%, and 85.8% of our consolidated net sales in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Approximately 48.9% of our net sales in 2005 were to companies that supply electrical wiring and ignition systems to manufacturers of new cars and trucks. Sales to these customers are highly sensitive to the rate of sales of new vehicles. A decline in new vehicle sales could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. WE ENCOUNTER SIGNIFICANT COMPETITION. The markets we compete in are characterized by intense price competition and increasing customer requirements for quality and service. We compete for business primarily on the basis of quality, service, engineering capability, and price. We encounter substantial competition from a large number of domestic and foreign-based manufacturing companies. Our competitors range from small and medium-sized specialized firms to large diversified companies, many of which have resources substantially greater than ours. Additionally, some of our customers have internal manufacturing operations that compete with us. -5- OUR HIGH LEVEL OF DEBT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL AND OPERATING FLEXIBILITY. Because we have substantial borrowings for a company our size and because those borrowings require us to make substantial interest and principal payments, any negative event may have a greater adverse effect upon us than it would have upon a company of the same size that has less debt. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPLY WITH OUR FINANCIAL COVENANTS. We cannot assure you that we will be able to remain in compliance with our financial covenants during 2006 or beyond. A number of factors may affect our ability to comply with all of our loan covenants, including our ability to continue to improve operations and the possible occurrence of any of the risks and uncertainties set forth under this Item 1A, the occurrence of any of which may cause our actual results or performance to be materially different from our projected results. In the event that we are not in compliance with any of our covenants in the future and our lenders do not agree to amend, waive, or eliminate those covenants, the lenders would have the right to declare the borrowings under their financing agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could force us to seek relief from our creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code. PART OF OUR LABOR FORCE IS UNIONIZED. At December 31, 2005, employees at the Rubber Group included a total of 321 hourly workers at two plant locations that were subject to collective bargaining agreements, which expire on October 21, 2007, and December 11, 2008, respectively. We cannot assure you that our existing union contracts will be successfully renegotiated upon their expirations. If we were to experience a strike or work slowdown, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. WE ARE SUBJECT TO LABOR INTERRUPTIONS AT MAJOR CUSTOMERS. Delphi Corporation and the three largest domestic automobile manufacturers have union contracts with various unions. Strikes or work slowdowns at Delphi or at any of the three largest domestic automobile manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE COST AND SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS. We purchase raw materials from various suppliers. While all of our raw materials are available from a number of suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price. Because raw materials in the aggregate constitute approximately 36% of our cost of goods sold, these fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have generally been successful in passing through to our customers increases in the prices of raw materials although price increases to our customers have typically lagged behind the price increases from our suppliers. We attempt to minimize the effect of price increases in raw materials by seeking other sources of supply, substituting alternative materials, and reformulating compounds. To date, we have not experienced any disruption in our production as a result of raw material shortages; however, we cannot assure you that we will not experience such disruptions in the future. WE ARE SUBJECT TO NUMEROUS ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. Our past and present business operations and our ownership and operation of real property are subject to extensive and changing environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of -6- materials into the environment, the handling and disposal of wastes, including solid and hazardous wastes, and the protection of the environment. Some of our existing and former locations use and have used substances and generate or have generated or disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous or otherwise are subject to applicable environmental requirements. In addition, we utilize storage tanks and bulk containers for petrochemicals and other substances at our facilities. Based on our experience to date, we do not expect environmental claims or the costs of compliance with federal, state, and local, environmental laws and regulations to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, operating results, or financial condition. We cannot assure you, however, that the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental laws and regulations or their interpretation, or other unanticipated events will not give rise to expenditures or liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS AND LITIGATION. Our business exposes us to potential product liability litigation that is inherent to the manufacture, marketing, and use of the components that we produce. Many of the components manufactured and sold by us are designed to be used for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks with respect to our components or the products in which they are incorporated could result in product failure or an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, consumers. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, our components or the products in which they are incorporated. We cannot assure you that the product liability insurance maintained by us would be available or sufficient to satisfy all claims against us or that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates, in adequate amounts, or at all. Future product liability claims, regardless of their ultimate outcome, or product recalls could result in costly litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our reputation and limit our ability to attract and retain customers. WE ARE SUBJECT TO INTEREST RATE CHANGES. At December 31, 2005, we had $25,147,000 of outstanding floating rate debt at interest rates equal to either LIBOR plus 3 1/4%, the prime rate plus 1%, the prime rate plus 4 3/4%, or the prime rate plus 5%. Currently, we do not purchase derivative financial instruments to hedge or reduce our interest rate risk. As a result, changes in either LIBOR or the prime rate affect the rates at which we borrow funds under these agreements. -7- 