ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Below are certain risk factors associated with our business. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are influenced by changing market conditions for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Approximately 92% of our revenues are attributable to sales of TiO2. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical and -15- Table of Contents changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand. Relative changes in the selling prices for our products are one of the main factors that affect the level of our profitability. In periods of increasing demand, our selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand our selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease. In addition, pricing may affect customer inventory levels as customers may from time to time accelerate purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price increases or defer purchases of TiO2 in advance of anticipated price decreases. Our ability to further increase capacity without additional investment in greenfield or brownfield capacity increases may be limited and as a result, our profitability may become even more dependent upon the selling prices of our products. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is also subject to annual seasonal fluctuations. TiO2 sales are generally higher in the second and third quarters of the year. This is due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet demand during the spring and summer painting season. The TiO2 industry is concentrated and highly competitive and we face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The global market in which we operate our business is concentrated with the top five TiO2 producers accounting for 59% of the world’s production capacity and is highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors’ financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. In addition, many of our raw material contracts contain fixed quantities we are required to purchase. The number of sources for and availability of certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located. For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in our TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. If our worldwide vendors were unable to meet their contractual obligations and we were unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we could incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels. We expect our feedstock ore costs will be significantly higher in 2012 as compared to 2011. In addition, we may also experience higher operating costs such as energy costs, which could affect our profitability. We may not always be able to increase our selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. -16- Table of Contents We have long-term supply contracts that provide for our TiO2 feedstock requirements that currently expire through 2016, most of which we may be able to renew. We may not be successful in renewing these contracts or in obtaining long-term extensions to these contracts prior to expiration. The agreements require us to purchase certain minimum quantities of feedstock with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $2.6 billion at December 31, 2011. In addition, we have other long-term supply and service contracts that provide for various raw materials and services. These agreements require us to purchase certain minimum quantities or services with minimum purchase commitments aggregating approximately $87 million at December 31, 2011. Our commitments under these contracts could adversely affect our financial results if we significantly reduce our production and were unable to modify the contractual commitments. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2011, our total consolidated debt was approximately $365.1 million, which relates primarily to our senior secured notes. Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; • requiring that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, which reduces our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; • limiting the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors. In addition to our indebtedness, we are party to various lease and other agreements pursuant to which, along with our indebtedness, we are committed to pay approximately $819.9 million in 2012. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our future ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds under our subsidiaries’ credit facilities in the future will, in some instances, depend in part on these subsidiaries’ ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement. Our business may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when they become due and to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion -17- Table of Contents of our debt before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all, in the current credit markets. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Global climate change legislation could negatively impact our financial results or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We operate production facilities in several countries. In many of the countries in which we operate, legislation has been passed, or proposed legislation is being considered, to limit greenhouse gases through various means, including emissions permits and/or energy taxes. In several of our production facilities, we consume large amounts of energy, primarily electricity and natural gas. To date, the permit system in effect in the various countries in which we operate has not had a material adverse effect on our financial results. However, if further greenhouse gas legislation were to be enacted in one or more countries, it could negatively impact our future results from operations through increased costs of production, particularly as it relates to our energy requirements or our need to obtain emissions permits. If such increased costs of production were to materialize, we may be unable to pass price increases onto our customers to compensate for increased production costs, which may decrease our liquidity, operating income and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 