risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Approximately 90% of our revenues are attributable to sales of TiO2. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. This may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand. Relative changes in the selling prices for our products is one of the main factors that affects the level of our profitability. In periods of increasing demand, our selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand our selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease. Future growth in demand for TiO2 may not be sufficient to alleviate any future conditions of excess industry capacity, and such conditions may not be sustained or may be further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated capacity additions or other events. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is also subject to annual seasonal fluctuations. TiO2 sales are generally higher in the first half of the year. This is due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet demand during the spring and summer painting season. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion on production and price changes. We sell several of our products in mature and highly competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The global markets in which we operate our business are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors. New competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. The number of sources for and availability of, certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located. For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in our TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. If our worldwide vendors were unable to meet their contractual obligations and we were unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we could incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels. We may not always be able to increase our selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2006, our total consolidated debt was approximately $536 million, substantially all of which relates to Senior Secured Notes of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Kronos International, Inc. Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, which reduces our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors. In addition to our indebtedness, we are party to various lease and other agreements pursuant to which, along with our indebtedness, we are committed to pay approximately $292 million in 2007. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, depends on our future ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds under our subsidiaries’ credit facilities in the future will in some instances depend in part on these subsidiaries’ ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement. Our business may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when they become due and to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 