ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Below are certain risk factors associated with our business. In addition to the potential effect of these risk factors discussed below, any risk factor which could result in reduced earnings or operating losses, or reduced liquidity, could in turn adversely affect our ability to service our liabilities or pay dividends on our common stock or adversely affect the quoted market prices for our securities. Demand for, and prices of, certain of our products are influenced by changing market conditions and we are currently operating in a depressed worldwide market for our products, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Approximately 90% of our revenues are attributable to sales of TiO2. Pricing within the global TiO2 industry over the long term is cyclical, and changes in economic conditions, especially in Western industrialized nations, can significantly impact our earnings and operating cash flows. The current world-wide economic downturn has depressed sales volumes in the fourth quarter of 2008, and we are unable to predict with a high degree of certainty when demand will return to the levels experienced prior to the fourth quarter of 2008. This may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Historically, the markets for many of our products have experienced alternating periods of increasing and decreasing demand. Relative changes in the selling prices for our products are one of the main factors that affect the level of our profitability. In periods of increasing demand, our selling prices and profit margins generally will tend to increase, while in periods of decreasing demand our selling prices and profit margins generally tend to decrease. Huntsman announced the closure of one if its European facilities, and we believe further shutdowns or closures in the industry are possible. The closures may not be sufficient to alleviate the current excess industry capacity and such conditions may be further aggravated by anticipated or unanticipated capacity additions or other events. The demand for TiO2 during a given year is also subject to annual seasonal fluctuations. TiO2 sales are generally higher in the first half of the year. This is due in part to the increase in paint production in the spring to meet demand during the spring and summer painting season. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion on production and price changes. We sell several of our products in mature and highly-competitive industries and face price pressures in the markets in which we operate, which may result in reduced earnings or operating losses. The global markets in which we operate our business are highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, such as price, product quality and service. Some of our competitors may be able to drive down prices for our products because their costs are lower than our costs. In addition, some of our competitors' financial, technological and other resources may be greater than our resources, and such competitors may be better able to withstand changes in market conditions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Further, consolidation of our competitors or customers may result in reduced demand for our products or make it more difficult for us to compete with our competitors. New competitors could emerge by modifying their existing production facilities so they could manufacture products that compete with our products. The occurrence of any of these events could result in reduced earnings or operating losses. Higher costs or limited availability of our raw materials may reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. The number of sources for and availability of, certain raw materials is specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located. For example, titanium-containing feedstocks suitable for use in our TiO2 facilities are available from a limited number of suppliers around the world. Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. If our worldwide vendors were unable to meet their contractual obligations and we were unable to obtain necessary raw materials, we could incur higher costs for raw materials or may be required to reduce production levels. We may not always be able to increase our selling prices to offset the impact of any higher costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity. Negative global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. We extend credit and payment terms to our customers. Although we have an ongoing process of evaluating customers’ financial condition, we could suffer significant losses if a customer fails and is unable to pay. A significant loss of an accounts receivable would have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our leverage may impair our financial condition or limit our ability to operate our businesses. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2008, our total consolidated debt was approximately $638.5 million, which relates to Senior Secured Notes, a revolving credit facility of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Kronos International, Inc., a revolving credit facility of our U.S. subsidiary, and a note payable to affiliate. Our level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders and creditors, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our liabilities; · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · requiring that a portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, which reduces our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate requirements; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged competitors. In addition to our indebtedness, we are party to various lease and other agreements pursuant to which, along with our indebtedness, we are committed to pay approximately $365.5 million in 2009. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, and to fund planned capital expenditures, depends on our future ability to generate cash flow. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds under our subsidiaries’ credit facilities in the future will, in some instances, depend in part on these subsidiaries’ ability to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial covenants contained in the applicable credit agreement. In this regard, we currently believe it is probable that one of our required financial ratios associated with our European credit facility will not be maintained at some point during 2009, most likely commencing at March 31, 2009. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity – Outstanding Debt Obligations and Borrowing Availability.” Our business may not generate cash flows from operating activities sufficient to enable us to pay our debts when they become due and to fund our other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt in a timely manner on favorable terms, if at all in the current credit markets. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flows or to refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 