D. Risk Factors Set out below are certain risk factors that could materially adversely affect our cash flow, operating results or financial condition. Investors should carefully consider these risk factors before making investment decisions involving our Common Shares. Our Business Has a Going Concern Uncertainty The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that JED Oil Inc. (“JED” or “the Company”) will be able to realize assets and discharge liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company generated a net income of $10,539,797 (2006 - net loss of $74,152,821; 2005 - net income of $1,143,144) and realized a negative cash flow from operating activities of $503,405 (2006 - negative cash flow of $4,927,696; 2005 - positive cash flow of $2,811,632). The gain on sale of petroleum and natural gas properties of $12,301,908 was primarily responsible for the net income for the year ended December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, JED had a consolidated working capital deficiency of $48,996,421 (December 31, 2006 - $3,033,553) and a stockholder’s deficiency of $16,061,026 (December 31, 2006 - $42,250,864). The Company’s large working capital deficiency and change in working capital from the prior year are as a result of the Convertible Note Payables becoming current during the year. The Company requires additional funds to maintain operations and discharge liabilities as they become due, as further discussed below. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The gain on sale of petroleum and natural gas properties and issues of common shares relating to the purchase of Caribou Resources Corp. during 2007 has significantly reduced the stockholder’s deficiency. The Company settled a contract for drilling services during the year ended December 31, 2007, that resulted in a loss of $1,931,327 and a payment by the drilling contractor to JED of an equal amount in cash. In the previous year, as at December 31, 2006, the Company had recorded significant non-cash write-downs of its petroleum and natural gas assets totaling $49,570,895 relating to impairments of Canadian assets and $16,444,640 relating to impairments of U.S. assets. These substantial losses in 2006 have contributed to an accumulated deficit of $73,353,000 at December 31, 2007 (December 31, 2006 - $85,321,927). There were no write-downs required for 2007. On July 1, 2008, the holders of the Company’s 10% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes (the “Notes”) have agreed to extend the Maturity Date for the redemption of the of the Notes, originally February 1, 2008, to September 30, 2008 to allow the Company to sell assets to redeem the Notes, or to October 21, 2008 if the sale transaction will require shareholder approval. Preferred shareholders of the Company have agreed to an extension to the redemption date of their shares from February 1, 2008 to February 1, 2010 and have received a reduced conversion price to acquire common shares at $3.50 per share over that period. The agreement reduces the Company’s current cash requirement to redeem the preferred shares by $28,760,000 until 2010. The outcome of these matters is dependant on factors outside of the Company’s control and cannot be predicted at this time. 5 The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability or classification of assets or the amounts or classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. We have identified Material Weaknesses in our Internal Controls Management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting and concluded that material weaknesses existed, as at December 31, 2007. See Item 15 “Controls and Procedures” for further information. We received a notice of noncompliance from the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”), and received an extension from AMEX until October 13, 2008. If we cannot demonstrate progress towards compliance over the extension period or achieve compliance with AMEX rules by October 13, 2008, we may be delisted from AMEX. In April 2007, JED received notice from the AMEX that at December 31, 2006, the Company was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) of the AMEX Company Guide which requires that a listed company must have either $2.0 million in shareholders’ equity or not have sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in two out of three of its most recent fiscal years. In June 2007, the AMEX approved JED’s plan to come back into compliance and granted JED an extension until October 13, 2008 (the “Plan Period”) to achieve such compliance. JED will continue its listing during the extension, subject to periodic review. In the event that JED does not make progress towards compliance consistent with its approved plan, or is not in compliance at the end of the plan period, the Company may be subject to delisting proceedings by the AMEX. In June 2008, the Company received correspondence from the AMEX informing the Company that, based on the recent announcements regarding the Canadian Chartered Bank not approving the $32 million credit facility without explanation, the Company currently risks its Plan Period being terminated based on the progress it has made with respect to its plan. Additionally, the AMEX is currently reviewing the Company with respect to its compliance with Section 1003(a)(iv) of the AMEX Company Guide which states that the Company must avoid financial impairment. The AMEX requested the Company provide a full discussion regarding its outstanding and maturing Notes, and what the Company has done, and will do, to address these. The Company responded to the AMEX’s request on June 30, 2008. Included in the response was a plan to sign an agreement with the holders of the Notes, which was signed on July 1, 2008 and has extended the Maturity Date for the redemption of the Notes, originally February 1, 2008, to September 30, 2008 to allow the Company to sell assets to redeem the Notes, or to October 21, 2008 if the sale transaction will require shareholder approval. The response also addressed the question of financial impairment and solvency of the Company through discussions of the Company’s reserves, average daily production and monthly cash flows. The Company has requested an extension to the Plan Period and is currently waiting for a response from the AMEX. Our results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the prices received for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices have fluctuated widely during recent years and are subject to fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply, demand, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, worldwide political instability, foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the level of consumer product demand, government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels and the overall economic environment. Any decline in crude oil or natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, borrowing ability, reserves and the level of expenditures for the development of oil and natural gas reserves. Currently, the Company does not have any hedges in place, however we may use financial derivative instruments and other hedging mechanisms to try to limit a portion of the adverse effects resulting from changes in natural gas and oil commodity prices. In addition, we regularly assess the carrying value of our assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP under the full cost method. If oil and natural gas prices become depressed or decline, the carrying value of our assets could be subject to downward revision. This occurred in the third quarter of 2006. An increase in operating costs or a decline in our production level could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and, therefore, could affect the market price of the Common Shares. Higher operating costs for our underlying properties will directly decrease the amount of cash flow received by JED. Electricity, chemicals, supplies, reclamation and abandonment and labour costs are a few of the operating costs that are susceptible to material fluctuation. The level of production from our existing properties may decline at rates greater than anticipated due to unforeseen circumstances, many of which are beyond our control. A significant decline in our production could result in materially lower revenues and cash flow. Our production levels will also decline as we sell production in accordance with our business plan and strategy. 6 A decline in our ability to market our oil and natural gas production could have a material adverse effect on production levels or on the price that we received for our production which, in turn, could affect the market price of our Common Shares. Our business depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Canadian federal and provincial, as well as United States federal and state, regulation of oil and gas production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors change and inhibit the marketing of our production, overall production or realized prices may decline. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business, and could affect the market price of our Common Shares. The price that we receive for a majority of our oil and natural gas is based on U.S. dollar denominated benchmarks, and therefore the price that we receive in Canadian dollars is affected by the exchange rate between the two currencies. A material increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively impact net production revenue by decreasing the Canadian dollars received for a given U.S. dollar price. We could be subject to unfavourable price changes to the extent that we have engaged, or in the future engage, in risk management activities related to foreign exchange rates, through entry into forward foreign exchange contracts or otherwise. Actual reserves will vary from reserve estimates, and those variations could be material, and affect the market price of our Common Shares. The reserve and recovery information contained in the independent engineering report prepared by CG Engineering Ltd. relating to our reserves is only an estimate and the actual production and ultimate reserves from our properties may be greater or less than the estimates prepared by CG Engineering Ltd. The value of our Common Shares depends upon, among other things, the reserves attributable to our properties. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual reserves attributable to our properties will vary from estimates, and those variations may be material. The reserve figures contained herein are only estimates. A number of factors are considered and a number of assumptions are made when estimating reserves. These factors and assumptions include, among others: · historical production in the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; · future commodity prices, production and development costs, royalties and capital expenditures; · initial production rates; · production decline rates; · ultimate recovery of reserves; · success of future development activities; · marketability of production; · effects of government regulation; and · other government levies that may be imposed over the producing life of reserves. Reserve estimates are based on the relevant factors, assumptions and prices on the date the relevant evaluations were prepared. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond our control. If these factors, assumptions and prices prove to be inaccurate, actual results may vary materially from reserve estimates. 7 If we expand our operations beyond oil and natural gas production in western Canada and the western United States we may face new challenges and risks, and if we were unsuccessful in managing these challenges and risks, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, which could affect the market price of our Common Shares. Our operations and expertise are currently focused on conventional oil and gas production and development in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin and the Rocky Mountain states of the U.S. In the future, we may acquire oil and gas properties outside of this geographic area. In addition, JED could acquire other energy related assets, such as oil and natural gas processing plants or pipelines. Expansion of our activities into new areas may present challenges and risks that we have not faced in the past. If we do not manage these challenges and risks successfully, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In determining the purchase price of acquisitions, we rely on both internal and external assessments relating to estimates of reserves that may prove to be materially inaccurate. Such reliance could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. The price we are willing to pay for reserve acquisitions is based largely on estimates of the reserves to be acquired. Actual reserves could vary materially from these estimates. Consequently, the reserves we acquire may be less than expected, which could adversely impact cash flows. An initial assessment of an acquisition may be based on a report by engineers or firms of engineers that have different evaluation methods and approaches than those of our engineers, and these initial assessments may differ significantly from our subsequent assessments. Some of our properties are not operated by us and, therefore, results of operations may be adversely affected by the failure of third-party operators, which could affect the market price of our Common Shares. The continuing production from a property, and to some extent the marketing of that production, is dependent upon the ability of the operators of those properties. At December 31, 2007, approximately 6% of our daily production was from properties operated by third (3rd) parties. To the extent a third (3rd) party operator fails to perform its functions efficiently or becomes insolvent, our revenue may be reduced. Third (3rd) party operators also make estimates of future capital expenditures more difficult. Further, the operating agreements which govern the properties not operated by us typically require the operator to conduct operations in a good and “workmanlike” manner. These operating agreements generally provide, however, that the operator has no liability to the other non-operating working interest owners for losses sustained or liabilities incurred, except for liabilities that may result from gross negligence or willful misconduct. Delays in business operations could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. In addition to the usual delays in payment by purchasers of oil and natural gas to the operators of our properties, and the delays of those operators in remitting payment to us, payments between any of these parties may also be delayed by: · restrictions imposed by lenders; · accounting delays; · delays in the sale or delivery of products; · delays in the connection of wells to a gathering system; · blowouts or other accidents; · adjustments for prior periods; · recovery by the operator of expenses incurred in the operation of the properties; or 8 · the establishment by the operator of reserves for these expenses. Any of these delays could expose us to additional third party credit risks. We may, from time to time, finance a significant portion of our operations through debt. Our indebtedness could affect the market price of our Common Shares. Variations in interest rates and scheduled principal repayments could result in significant changes to the amount of the cash flow required to be applied to debt. The agreements governing our credit facility provide that if we are in default under the credit facility, exceed certain borrowing thresholds or fail to comply with certain covenants, we must repay the indebtedness at an accelerated rate. The agreements governing our 10% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes provide that if we are in default or fail to comply with certain covenants, we can be required to immediately redeem the notes at 120% of their value. Our lenders have been provided with a security interest in substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to pay the debt service charges or otherwise commit an event of default, such as bankruptcy, our lenders may foreclose on and sell the properties. The proceeds of any sale would be applied to satisfy amounts owed to the creditors. Only after the proceeds of that sale were applied towards the debt would the remainder, if any, be available for distribution to shareholders. Our current credit facility and any replacement credit facility may not provide sufficient liquidity. We do no have a current credit facility. We may not be able to obtain financing on economic terms attractive to us, if at all. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete for capital, acquisitions of reserves, undeveloped lands, skilled personnel, access to drilling rigs, service rigs and other equipment, access to processing facilities, pipeline and refining capacity and in many other respects with a substantial number of other organizations, many of which may have greater technical and financial resources than we do. Some of these organizations not only explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market oil and other products on a worldwide basis. As a result of these complementary activities, some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse competitive resources to draw on than we do. Given the highly competitive nature of the oil and natural gas industry, this could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. The industry in which we operate exposes us to potential liabilities that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all of the risks associated with the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties, including the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, and the production and transportation of oil and natural gas. These risks include encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, equipment failures and other accidents, cratering, sour gas releases, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, adverse weather conditions, pollution, other environmental risks, fires and spills. A number of these risks could result in personal injury, loss of life, or environmental and other damage to our property or the property of others. We cannot fully protect against all of these risks, nor are all of these risks insurable. We may become liable for damages arising from these events against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. Any costs incurred to repair these damages or pay these liabilities would reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. 9 The operation of oil and natural gas wells could subject us to environmental claims and liability. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to local, provincial and federal legislation. A breach of that legislation may result in the imposition of fines or the issuance of “clean up” orders. Legislation regulating the oil and natural gas industry may be changed to impose higher standards and potentially more costly obligations. For example, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nation’s Framework Convention on Climate Change, known as the Kyoto Protocol, was ratified by the Canadian government in December, 2002 and will require, among other things, significant reductions in greenhouse gases. The impact of the Kyoto Protocol on us is uncertain and may result in significant future additional costs for our operations. Although we record a provision in our financial statements relating to our estimated future environmental and reclamation obligations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy our actual future environmental and reclamation obligations. We are not fully insured against certain environmental risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. In particular, insurance against risks from environmental pollution occurring over time (as opposed to sudden and catastrophic damages) is not available on economically reasonable terms. Accordingly, our properties may be subject to liability due to hazards that cannot be insured against, or that have not been insured against due to prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. Any site reclamation or abandonment costs actually incurred in the ordinary course of business in a specific period will be funded out of cash flow and, therefore, will reduce the amounts available for distribution to Shareholders. Should we be unable to fully fund the cost of remedying an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write-downs. Any write-downs could materially affect the value of your investment. We use the “full cost” method of accounting for petroleum and natural gas properties. All costs related to the exploration for and the development of oil and gas reserves are capitalized into two geographic cost centres representing JED’s activity which are undertaken in Canada and the U.S. Costs capitalized include land acquisition costs, geological and geophysical expenditures, lease rentals on undeveloped properties and costs of drilling productive and non-productive wells. Proceeds from the disposal of properties are applied as a reduction of cost without recognition of a gain or loss except where such disposals involve a significant portion of the Company’s proved reserves. Capitalized costs are depleted and depreciated using the unit-of-production method based on the estimated gross proven oil and natural gas reserves before royalties as determined by independent engineers. Units of natural gas are converted into barrels of oil equivalents on a relative energy content basis. Capitalized costs, net of accumulated depletion and depreciation, are limited to estimated future net revenues from proven reserves, based on year-end prices, discounted at 10%. The amounts recorded for depletion and depreciation and the provision for future abandonment and site restoration costs are based on estimates of proven reserves and future costs. The recoverable value of capital assets is based on a number of factors including the estimated proven reserves and future costs. By their nature, these estimates are subject to measurement uncertainty and the impact on financial statements of future periods could be material. We perform a cost recovery ceiling test which limits net capitalized costs to the estimated future net revenue from proven oil and gas reserves plus the cost of unproven properties less impairment, using year-end prices or average prices. Under U.S. GAAP, companies using the “full cost” method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities perform a ceiling test using discounted estimated future net revenue from proven oil and gas reserves with a discount factor of 10%. Prices used in the U.S. GAAP ceiling tests performed for this reconciliation were those in effect at the applicable year-end. Financing and administration costs are excluded from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. At December 31, 2006 JED realized a U.S. GAAP ceiling test write-down of $5,044,975. At September 30, 2006 JED realized a U.S. GAAP ceiling test write-down of $60,970,560. There were no such write-downs required at December 31, 2005 or 2007. 10 The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of crude oil and natural gas properties increases when crude oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. We may experience additional ceiling test write-downs in the future. Unforeseen title defects may result in a loss of entitlement to production and reserves. Although we conduct title reviews in accordance with industry practice prior to any purchase of resource assets, such reviews do not guarantee that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise and defeat our title to the purchased assets. If such a defect were to occur, our entitlement to the production from such purchased assets could be jeopardized. Aboriginal Land Claims The economic impact on us of claims of aboriginal title is unknown. Aboriginal people have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada. We are unable to assess the effect, if any, that any such claim would have on our business and operations. Changes in tax and other laws may adversely affect Shareholders. Income tax laws, other laws or government incentive programs relating to the oil and gas industry may in the future be changed or interpreted in a manner that adversely affects JED and our Shareholders. Tax authorities having jurisdiction over JED or the Shareholders may disagree with the manner in which we calculate our income for tax purposes or could change their administrative practices to our detriment or the detriment of Shareholders. Changes in market-based factors may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares. The market price of our Common Shares is primarily a function of the value of our properties. The market price of our Common Shares is therefore sensitive to a variety of market based factors, including, but not limited to, interest rates and the comparability of our Common Shares to other securities. Any changes in these market-based factors may adversely affect the trading price of the Common Shares. Our operations are dependent on our management and staff, and loss of key management and other personnel could impact our business. Shareholders are entirely dependent on the management of JED with respect to the acquisition of oil and gas properties and assets, the development and acquisition of additional reserves and the management and administration of all matters relating to our oil and natural gas properties. The loss of the services of key individuals who currently comprise the management team could have a detrimental effect on JED. Investors should carefully consider whether they are willing to rely on the existing management before investing in the Common Shares. There may be future dilution. One of our objectives is to continually add to our reserves through acquisitions and through development. Our success is, in part, dependent on our ability to raise capital from time to time by selling additional Common Shares. Shareholders will suffer dilution as a result of these offerings if, for example, the cash flow, production or reserves from the acquired assets do not reflect the additional number of Common Shares issued to acquire those assets. Shareholders may also suffer dilution in connection with future issuances of Common Shares to effect acquisitions. There may not always be an active trading market for the Common Shares. While there is currently an active trading market for our Common Shares in the United States and Canada, we cannot guarantee that an active trading market will be sustained. 11 We may undertake acquisitions that could limit our ability to manage and maintain our business, result in adverse accounting treatment and are difficult to integrate into our business. Any of these events could result in a material change in our liquidity, impair our ability to pay dividends and could adversely affect the value of your investment. A component of future growth will depend on the ability to identify, negotiate, and acquire additional companies and assets that complement or expand existing operations. However we may be unable to complete any acquisitions, or any acquisitions we may complete may not enhance our business. Any acquisitions could subject us to a number of risks, including: · diversion of management’s attention; · inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; if needed; · inability to establish uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition; and · inability to integrate the acquired company’s assets into our organization effectively. Item 