ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The ratings of the Company or of any securities sold by the Company may change, which may increase the Company’s costs of capital and may reduce the liquidity of the Company’s securities. Ratings are based primarily on the creditworthiness of the Company, the underlying assets of asset-backed securitizations, the amount of credit enhancement in any given transaction and the legal structure of any given transaction. Ratings are not a recommendation to purchase, hold, or sell any of the Company’s securities inasmuch as the ratings do not comment as to the market price or suitability for investors. There is no assurance that ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that current ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn by any rating agency. Ratings for the Company or any of its securities may be increased, lowered, or withdrawn by any rating agency if in the rating agency’s judgment circumstances so warrant. If the Company’s credit ratings are lowered or withdrawn, the Company may experience an increase in interest rates or other costs associated with the capital raising activities by the Company, which may negatively affect the Company’s operations. Additionally, a lowered or withdrawn credit rating may negatively affect the liquidity of the Company’s securities. The Company may be subject to penalties and sanctions if it fails to comply with governmental regulations or guaranty agency rules. The Company’s principal business is comprised of originating, acquiring, holding, and servicing student loans made and guaranteed pursuant to the FFEL Program, which was created by the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act governs most significant aspects of the Company’s operations. The Company is also subject to rules of the agencies that act as guarantors of the student loans, known as guaranty agencies. In addition, the Company is subject to certain federal and state banking laws, regulations, and examinations, as well as federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including, without limitation, laws and regulations governing borrower privacy protection, information security, restrictions on access to student information, and specifically with respect to the Company’s non-federally insured loan portfolio, certain state usury laws and related regulations and the Federal Truth in Lending Act. Also, Canadian laws and regulations govern the Company’s Canadian loan servicing operations. All or most of these laws and regulations impose substantial requirements upon lenders and servicers involved in consumer finance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in liability to borrowers, the imposition of civil penalties, and potential class action suits. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s failure to comply with regulatory regimes described above may arise from: • breaches of the Company’s internal control systems, such as a failure to adjust manual or automated servicing functions following a change in regulatory requirements; • technological defects, such as a malfunction in or destruction of the Company’s computer systems; or • fraud by the Company’s employees or other persons in activities such as borrower payment processing. Such failure to comply, irrespective of the reason, could subject the Company to loss of the federal guaranty on federally insured loans, costs of curing servicing deficiencies or remedial servicing, suspension or termination of the Company’s right to participate in the FFEL Program or to participate as a servicer, negative publicity, and potential legal claims or actions brought by the Company’s servicing customers and borrowers. The Company has the ability to cure servicing deficiencies and the Company’s historical losses in this area have been minimal. However, the Company’s loan servicing and guaranty servicing activities are highly dependent on its information systems, and while the Company has well-developed and tested business recovery systems, the Company faces the risk of business disruption should there be extended failures of its systems. The Company also manages operational risk through its risk management and internal control processes covering its product and service offerings. These internal control processes are documented and tested regularly. Although the Company reached an agreement with the Department resolving the audit by the Department’s Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) of the Company’s portfolio of loans receiving 9.5 percent special allowance payments, the Company was informed by the Department that a civil attorney with the Department of Justice has opened a file regarding this issue which the Company understands is common procedure following an OIG audit report. The Company believes that any claim related to this issue has no merit. The Company must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of its federally insured loans, and the Company may incur penalties or lose its guarantees if it fails to meet these requirements. The Company must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guaranty on its federally insured loans. These requirements establish servicing requirements and procedural guidelines and specify school and borrower eligibility criteria. The federal guaranty on the Company’s federally insured loans is conditioned on compliance with origination, servicing, and collection standards set by the Department and guaranty agencies. Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department’s regulations risk partial or complete loss of the guaranty thereof. If the Company experiences a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another) or costs associated with remedial servicing, and if the Company is unsuccessful in curing such deficiencies, the eventual losses on the loans that are not cured could be material. A guaranty agency may reject a loan for claim payment as a result of a violation of the FFEL Program due diligence servicing requirements. In addition, a guaranty agency may reject claims under other circumstances, including, for example, if a claim is not timely filed or adequate documentation is not maintained. Once a loan ceases to be guaranteed, it is ineligible for federal interest subsidies and special allowance payments. If a loan is rejected for claim payment by a guaranty agency, the Company continues to pursue the borrower for payment and/or institutes a process to reinstate the guaranty. Rejections of claims as to portions of interest may be made by guaranty agencies for certain violations of the due diligence collection and servicing requirements, even though the remainder of a claim may be paid. Examples of errors that cause claim rejections include isolated missed collection calls or failures to send collection letters as required. The Department has implemented school eligibility requirements, which include default rate limits. In order to maintain eligibility in the FFEL Program, schools must maintain default rates below these specified limits, and both guaranty agencies and lenders are required to ensure that loans are made only to or on behalf of students attending schools that do not exceed the default rate limits. If the Company fails to comply with any of the above requirements, it could incur penalties or lose the federal guaranty on some or all of its federally insured loans. If the Company’s actual loss on denied guarantees were to increase substantially in future periods the impact could be material to the Company’s operations. The Company could be sanctioned if it conducts activities which are considered prohibited inducements under the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act generally prohibits a lender from providing certain inducements to educational institutions or individuals in order to secure applicants for FFELP loans. The Company has structured its relationships and product offerings in a manner intended to comply with the Higher Education Act and the available communications and guidance from the Department. If the Department 17 Table of Contents were to change its position on any of these matters, the Company may have to change the way it markets products and services and a new marketing strategy may not be as effective. If the Company fails to respond to the Department’s change in position, the Department could potentially impose sanctions upon the Company that could negatively impact the Company’s business. On January 11, 2007, the Company received a letter from the Office of the New York State Attorney General (“NYAG”) requesting certain information and documents from the Company in connection with the NYAG’s investigation into preferred lender list activities. “Preferred lender lists” are lists of lenders recommended by college and university financial aid departments to students seeking financial aid. On February 1, 2007, the NYAG announced that the NYAG’s office is conducting an investigation of the student loan industry to determine if there are conflict of interest issues relating to lenders being placed on the preferred lender lists at colleges and universities, and that the NYAG had sent similar requests to other lenders and is also seeking information from a number of colleges and universities nationwide. The Company is cooperating with the NYAG’s investigation and believes its practices comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Changes in legislation and regulations could have a negative impact upon the Company’s business and may affect its profitability. Funds for payment of interest subsidy payments, special allowance payments, and other payments under the FFEL Program are subject to annual budgetary appropriations by Congress. Federal budget legislation has in the past contained provisions that restricted payments made under the FFEL Program to achieve reductions in federal spending. Future federal budget legislation may adversely affect expenditures by the Department, and the financial condition of the guaranty agencies. Furthermore, Congressional amendments to the Higher Education Act or other relevant federal laws, and rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Education, may adversely impact holders of FFELP loans. For example, changes might be made to the rate of interest paid on FFELP loans, to the level of insurance provided by guaranty agencies, or to the servicing requirements for FFELP loans. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. HERA was enacted into law on February 8, 2006 and effectively reauthorized the Title IV provisions of the FFEL Program through 2012. HERA did not reauthorize the entire Higher Education Act, which is set to expire on June 30, 2007 (as a result of the Third Higher Education Extension Act of 2006). Therefore, further action will be required by Congress to either extend or reauthorize the remaining titles of the Higher Education Act. The Company does not anticipate a negative impact from the reauthorization of the remaining titles of the Higher Education Act. However, it cannot predict the outcome of this or any other legislation impacting the FFEL Program, and recognizes that a level of political and legislative risk always exists within the industry. This could include changes in legislation further impacting lender margins, fees paid to the Department, new policies affecting the competition between the FDL Program and FFEL Programs, or additional lender risk sharing. See Part I, Item I, “Business—Recent Developments Related to the Higher Education Act.” In addition to changes to the FFEL Program and the Higher Education Act, changes to privacy and direct mail legislation could also negatively impact the Company, in particular the Company’s lead generation activities. Changes in such legislation could restrict the Company’s ability to collect information for its lead generation activities and its ability to use the information it collects. In addition, changes to privacy and direct mail legislation could cause the Company to incur expenses related to implementation of any required changes to the Company’s compliance programs. A loss of customer data requiring notification to customers could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company, on its own behalf and on behalf of other entities, stores a significant amount of personal data about the customers to whom the Company provides services. If the Company were to suffer a major loss of customer data, through breach of its systems or otherwise, entities for which the Company provides services might choose to find another service provider. Variation in the maturities, timing of rate reset, and variation of indices of the Company’s assets and liabilities exposes the Company to interest rate risks which may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Because the Company generates the majority of its earnings from the spread between the yield received on its portfolio of student loans and the cost of financing these loans, the interest rate sensitivity of the balance sheet could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. The majority of the Company’s student loans have variable-rate characteristics in interest rate environments where the result of the special allowance payment formula exceeds the borrower rate. Some of the Company’s student loans, primarily Consolidation loans, include fixed-rate floor components depending upon loan terms and the rate reset provisions set by the Department. The Company has financed the majority of its student loan portfolio with variable-rate debt. Because some assets have fixed-rate floors, yet the majority of the financings for these loans are variable-rate, absent utilization of derivative instruments, fluctuations in the interest rate environment will affect the Company’s results of operations. Such fluctuations may be material. From time to time, the Company’s federally insured loan portfolio will yield additional income due to variable-rate liabilities financing student loans which have fixed-rate floors. Absent the use of derivative instruments, a rise in interest rates will have an 18 Table of Contents adverse effect on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increasing financing costs, until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with the special allowance payment formula discussed in Part I, Item 1, “Business – Operating Segments – Asset Generation and Management – Interest Rate Risk Management.” In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed-rate loans effectively become variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced. Loans originated after April 1, 2006, no longer have fixed-rate floors, as they are purely variable rate. Due to the variability in duration of the Company’s assets and varying market conditions, the Company does not attempt to perfectly match the interest rate characteristics of its entire loan portfolio with the underlying debt instruments. Most student loans, even those with fixed-rate floors, are financed with variable-rate debt. In a rising rate environment, this mismatch could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Because of this, the Company employs various derivative instruments to offset this mismatch. Changes in interest rates and the composition of the Company’s student loan portfolio and derivative instruments will impact the effect of interest rates on the Company’s earnings, and the Company cannot predict any such impact with any level of certainty. See Part I, Item 1, “Business – Operating Segments – Asset Generation and Management — Interest Rate Risk Management.” The Company is subject to various market risks which may have an adverse impact upon its business and operations and may have a negative effect on the Company’s profitability. The Company’s primary market risk exposure arises from fluctuations in its borrowing and lending rates, the spread between which could be impacted by shifts in market interest rates. The borrower rates on the Company’s current portfolio of federally insured loans are generally reset by the Department each July 1st based on a formula determined by the date of the origination of the loan, with the exception of rates on consolidation loans, which are generally fixed-rate to the borrower for the life of the loan. For all FFELP loans originated after July 1, 2006, the loans are fixed-rate to the borrower for the life of the loan. For FFELP loans originated prior to April 1, 2006, the interest rate the Company actually receives on federally insured loans is the greater of the borrower rate and a SAP rate determined by a formula based on a spread to either the 91-day Treasury Bill index or the 90-day commercial paper index, depending on when the loans were originated and the current repayment status of the loans. On FFELP loans originated on or after April 1, 2006, the Company only earns interest at the SAP rate determined by a formula based on 90-day commercial paper. For the FFELP portfolio of loans originated on or after April 1, 2006, when the borrower rate exceeds the variable rate based upon the SAP formula, the Company must return the excess to the Department. The result is that loans originated prior to April 1, 2006, may have fixed-rate floors in declining interest rate environments, however, in rising interest rate environments, all such loans convert to their variable SAP rates. Loans originated on or after April 1, 2006, will no longer experience fixed-rate floors and will only be variable rate in rising or falling interest rate environments. The Company issues asset-backed securities, the vast majority being variable-rate, to fund its student loan assets. The variable-rate debt is generally indexed to 90-day LIBOR, set by auction or through a remarketing process. The income generated by the Company’s student loan assets is generally driven by short-term indices (Treasury bills and commercial paper) that are different from those which affect the Company’s liabilities (generally LIBOR), which creates basis risk. Moreover, the Company also faces basis risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on its liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as every quarter, and the timing of the interest rate resets on its assets, which generally occur daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause the Company’s student loan spread to compress, while in a rising rate environment, it may cause it to increase. The Company has used derivatives instruments to hedge basis risk, however, most basis risk is not hedged, since the relationship between the indices for most of the Company’s assets and liabilities is highly correlated. Nevertheless, the basis between the indices may widen from time to time, which would impact the net spread on the portfolio. The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risk and such risk could lead to increased costs. As a result of the Company’s offerings of Euro-denominated notes completed in 2006, the Company is subject to increased foreign currency exchange risk as discussed under the caption “Foreign Currency Exchange Risk” in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. Additionally, the Company is also exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. and Canadian dollars as a result of the Company’s December 2004 acquisition of EDULINX, a Canadian corporation engaged in the servicing of Canadian student loans. The Company has not entered into any foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge this risk. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company. The Company’s derivative instruments may not be successful in managing interest rate and foreign currency exchange risks, which may negatively impact the Company’s operations. When the Company utilizes derivative instruments, it utilizes them to manage interest rate and foreign currency exchange sensitivity. Although the Company does not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes, its derivative instruments do not qualify for 19 Table of Contents hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (“SFAS No. 133”); consequently, the change in fair value, called the “mark to market”, of these derivative instruments is included in the Company’s operating results. Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates can and have significantly impacted the valuation of the Company’s derivatives. Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates will impact the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company. The derivative instruments used by the Company are typically in the form of interest rate swaps, basis swaps, interest rate floor contracts, and cross-currency interest rate swaps. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate the Company from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, a counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation, thereby exposing the Company to counterparty risk. Further, the Company may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if the Company terminates a derivative instrument. Finally, the Company’s interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk management activities could expose the Company to substantial mark to market losses if interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates move materially differently from the environment when the derivatives were entered into. As a result, the Company cannot offer any assurance that its economic hedging activities will effectively manage its interest and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on its results of operations or financial condition. When the mark to market of a derivative instrument is negative, the Company owes the counterparty and, therefore, has no counterparty risk. Additionally, if the negative mark to market of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, the Company may have to pay a collateral deposit to the counterparty. If interest and foreign currency exchange rates move materially, the Company could be required to deposit a significant amount of collateral with its derivative instrument counterparties. The collateral deposits, if significant, could negatively impact the Company’s capital resources. The Company attempts to manage market risks associated with interest and foreign currency exchange rates by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken. The Company faces liquidity risks due to the fact that a portion of its operating and warehouse financing needs are provided by third-party sources. The Company’s primary funding needs are those required to finance its student loan portfolio and satisfy its cash requirements for new student loan originations and acquisitions, operating expenses, and technological development. A portion of the Company’s operating and warehouse financings are provided by third parties, over which it has no control. If such financing sources are unavailable, the Company may be unable to meet its financial commitments to creditors, branding partners, forward flow lenders, or borrowers when due unless the Company is able to find alternative funding mechanisms. The Company relies upon three conduit warehouse loan financing vehicles to support its funding needs on a short-term basis: a multi-seller bank provided conduit with $4 billion of committed funding for FFELP loans, a single-seller extendible commercial paper conduit authorized to fund up to $5 billion in FFELP loans, and a private loan warehouse with $250 million in uncommitted financing for non-federally insured student loans. The multi-year committed facility for FFELP loans, which terminates in May 2009, and is supported by 364-day liquidity, which must either be renewed annually or funded by the banks through other means for the term of the conduit. As of December 31, 2006, $2.9 billion was outstanding under this facility and $1.1 billion was available for future use. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to maintain this conduit facility, find alternative funding, or increase the commitment level of such facility, if necessary. While the Company’s bank-supported conduit facilities have historically been renewed for successive terms, there can be no assurance that this will continue in the future. The extendible commercial paper warehouse for FFELP loans is offered in the Company’s own name (through its wholly owned subsidiary Nelnet Student Asset Funding Extendible CP, LLC), and is not reliant upon liquidity or bank support. As of December 31, 2006, $2.3 billion of commercial paper was outstanding under this facility and $2.7 billion was available for issuance. This facility has no maturity date, however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain this conduit facility, find alternative funding, or increase the outstanding amount of such facility, if necessary. The private loan warehouse facility is an uncommitted facility that is offered to the Company by one banking partner, which terminates in October 2008. As of December 31, 2006, $35 million was outstanding under this facility and $215 million was available for future use. Nelnet guarantees the performance of the assets in the private loan warehouse facility. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain this conduit facility, find alternative funding, or increase the size of the facility, if necessary. While the Company’s bank supported facilities have historically been renewed for successive terms, there can be no assurance that this will continue in the future. The Company maintains a $500 million unsecured line of credit supported by various banking entities. At December 31, 2006, there was $103.0 million outstanding on this line and $397.0 million was available for future uses. The $500.0 million line of credit terminates in August 2010, however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain this line of credit, find alternative funding, or increase the amount outstanding under the line, if necessary. On January 24, 2007, the Company established a $475 million unsecured commercial paper program. Under the program, the Company may issue commercial paper for general corporate purposes. The maturities of the notes issued under this program will vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. Notes issued under this program will bear interest at rates that will vary based on market conditions at the time of issuance. 20 Table of Contents Characteristics unique to asset-backed securitization may negatively affect the Company’s continued liquidity. The Company has historically relied upon, and expects to continue to rely upon, asset-backed securitizations as its most significant source of funding for student loans on a long-term basis. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, $19.7 billion and $16.5 billion, respectively, of the Company’s student loans were funded by long-term asset-backed securitizations. The net cash flow the Company receives from the securitized student loans generally represents the excess amounts generated by the underlying student loans over the amounts required to be paid to the bondholders, after deducting servicing fees and any other expenses relating to the securitizations. In addition, some of the residual interests in these securitizations have been pledged to secure additional bond obligations. The Company’s rights to cash flow from securitized student loans are subordinate to bondholder interests, and these loans may fail to generate any cash flow beyond what is due to bondholders. The interest rates on certain of the Company’s asset-backed securities are set and periodically reset via a “dutch auction” or through a remarketing utilizing broker-dealers and remarketing agents for varying intervals, generally ranging from seven to 35 days. (In a few circumstances, the reset periods may be multiple years.) For auction rate securities, investors and potential investors submit orders through a broker-dealer as to the principal amount of notes they wish to buy, hold, or sell at various interest rates. The broker-dealers submit their clients’ orders to the auction agent, who then determines the clearing interest rate for the upcoming period. For remarketed securities, the remarketing agents set the price, which is then offered to investors. If there are insufficient potential bid orders to purchase all of the notes offered for sale, the Company could be subject to interest costs substantially above the anticipated and historical rates paid on these types of securities. A failed auction or remarketing could also reduce the investor base of the Company’s other financing and debt instruments. In addition, market factors existing at the time the Company’s asset-backed securities are auctioned or remarketed may cause other competing investments to become more attractive to investors than the Company’s securities, which may decrease the liquidity and/or interest rates of such securities. Future losses due to defaults on loans held by the Company present credit risk which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. As of December 31, 2006, 99% of the Company’s student loan portfolio was comprised of federally insured loans. These loans currently benefit from a federal guaranty of their principal balance and accrued interest. As a result of the Company’s Exceptional Performer designation, the Company received 99% reimbursement on all eligible FFELP default claims submitted for reimbursement during the applicable designation period. See Part I, Item 1, “Business – Operating Segments – Asset Generation and Management – Credit Risk.” The Company is entitled to receive this benefit as long as it and/or its service providers continue to meet the required servicing standards published by the Department. Compliance with such standards is assessed on a quarterly basis. In addition, service providers must apply for re-designation as an Exceptional Performer with the Department on an annual basis. In June 2006, the Company submitted its application for Exceptional Performer re-designation to the Department to continue receiving reimbursements at the 99% level for the 12-month period from June 1, 2006 through May 31, 2007. As of March 1, 2007, the Department has not notified the Company of its redesignation. Until the Department confirms or denies the Company’s application for renewal, the Company continues to receive the benefit of the Exceptional Performer designation. It is the opinion of the Company’s management, based on information currently known, that there is no reason to believe the Company’s application will be rejected. If the Department rejected the Company’s application for Exceptional Performer status, the Company would have to establish a provision for loan losses related to the risk sharing on those loans that the Company services internally. Based on the balance of federally insured loans outstanding as of December 31, 2006, this provision would be approximately $15.3 million. The Company bears full risk of losses experienced with respect to the unguaranteed portion of its federally insured loans (the 1% risk sharing on loans serviced by a service provider designated as an Exceptional Performer and 2-3% risk sharing portion on loans not serviced by a service provider designated as an Exceptional Performer). If the Company or a third party service provider were to lose its Exceptional Performer designation, either by the Department or Congress discontinuing the program or by the Company or third party not meeting the required servicing standards, loans serviced by the Company or third-party would become subject to the 2-3% risk sharing loss for all claims submitted after any loss of the Exceptional Performer designation. If the Department discontinued the program or Congress eliminated the program, the Company would have to establish a provision for loan losses related to the 2-3% risk sharing. Losses on the Company’s non-federally insured loans are borne by the Company. The performance of student loans in the portfolio is affected by the economy, and a prolonged economic downturn may have an adverse effect on the credit performance of these loans. While the Company has provided allowances estimated to cover losses that may be experienced in both its federally insured and non-federally insured loan portfolios, there can be no assurance that such allowances will be sufficient to cover actual losses in the future. 21 Table of Contents The Company could experience cash flow problems if a guaranty agency defaults on its guaranty obligation. A deterioration in the financial status of a guaranty agency and its ability to honor guaranty claims on defaulted student loans could result in a failure of that guaranty agency to make its guaranty payments in a timely manner, if at all. The financial condition of a guaranty agency can be adversely affected if it submits a large number of reimbursement claims to the Department, which results in a reduction of the amount of reimbursement that the Department is obligated to pay the guaranty agency. The Department may also require a guaranty agency to return its reserve funds to the Department upon a finding that the reserves are unnecessary for the guaranty agency to pay its FFEL Program expenses or to serve the best interests of the FFEL Program. If the Department has determined that a guaranty agency is unable to meet its guaranty obligations, the loan holder may submit claims directly to the Department, and the Department is required to pay the full guaranty claim. However, the Department’s obligation to pay guaranty claims directly in this fashion is contingent upon the Department making the determination that a guaranty agency is unable to meet its guaranty obligations. The Department may not ever make this determination with respect to a guaranty agency and, even if the Department does make this determination, payment of the guaranty claims may not be made in a timely manner, which could result in the Company experiencing cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2006, College Assist, Nebraska Student Loan Program, Inc., California Student Aid Commission, Educational Credit Management Corp., United Student Aid Funds, Inc., and American Student Assistance were the primary guarantors of the student loans beneficially owned by the Company’s education lending subsidiaries. Management periodically reviews the financial condition of its guarantors and does not believe the level of concentration creates an unusual or unanticipated credit risk. In addition, management believes that based on amendments to the Higher Education Act, the security for and payment of any of the education lending subsidiaries’ obligations would not be materially adversely affected as a result of legislative action or other failure to perform on its obligations on the part of any guaranty agency. The Company, however, cannot provide absolute assurances to that effect. Competition created by the FDL Program and from other lenders and servicers may adversely impact the Company’s business. Under the FDL Program, the Department makes loans directly to student borrowers through the educational institutions they attend. The volume of student loans made under the FFEL Program and available for the Company to originate or acquire may be reduced to the extent loans are made to students under the FDL Program. In addition, if the FDL Program expands, to the extent the volume of loans serviced by the Company is reduced, the Company may experience reduced economies of scale, which could adversely affect earnings. Loan volume reductions could further reduce amounts received by the guaranty agencies available to pay claims on defaulted student loans. In the FFEL Program market, the Company faces significant competition from SLM Corporation, the parent company of Sallie Mae. The Company also faces intense competition from other existing lenders and servicers. As the Company expands its student loan origination and acquisition activities, that expansion may result in increased competition with some of its servicing customers. This has in the past occasionally resulted in servicing customers terminating their contractual relationships with the Company, and the Company could in the future lose more servicing customers as a result. As the Company seeks to further expand its business, the Company will face numerous other competitors, many of which will be well established in the markets the Company seeks to penetrate. Some of the Company’s competitors are much larger than the Company, have better name recognition, and have greater financial and other resources. In addition, several competitors have large market capitalizations or cash reserves and are better positioned to acquire companies or portfolios in order to gain market share. Consequently, such competitors may have more flexibility to address the risks inherent in the student loan business. Finally, some of the Company’s competitors are tax-exempt organizations that do not pay federal or state income taxes and which usually have the ability to issue tax-exempt securities, which typically carry a lower cost of funds than the Company’s securities. These factors could give the Company’s competitors a strategic advantage. Higher rates of prepayments of student loans could reduce the Company’s profits. Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty. Prepayments may result from consolidating student loans, which tends to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments, from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment, and from voluntary full or partial prepayments, among other things. High prepayment rates will have the most impact on the Company’s asset-backed securitization transactions priced in relation to LIBOR, since these securities are priced according to their expected average lives. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 13 transactions outstanding totaling approximately $14.2 billion that had experienced cumulative prepayment rates ranging from 6.9% to 25.0% as compared to 10 transactions outstanding totaling approximately $10.1 billion that had experienced cumulative prepayment rates ranging from 13.0% to 25.2% as of December 31, 2005. The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates and the availability of alternative financing. The Company’s profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which would reduce the amount of interest the Company received and expose the Company to reinvestment risk. 22 Table of Contents Increases in consolidation loan activity by the Company and its competitors present a risk to the Company’s loan portfolio and profitability. The Company’s portfolio of federally insured loans is subject to refinancing through the use of consolidation loans, which are expressly permitted by the Higher Education Act. Consolidation loan activity may result in three detrimental effects. First, when the Company consolidates loans in its own portfolio, the new consolidation loans have a lower yield than the loans being refinanced due to the statutorily mandated consolidation loan rebate fee of 1.05% per year. Although consolidation loans generally feature higher average balances, longer average lives, and slightly higher special allowance payments, such attributes may not be sufficient to counterbalance the cost of the rebate fees. Second, and more significantly, the Company may lose student loans in its portfolio that are consolidated away by competing lenders. Increased consolidations of student loans by the Company’s competitors may result in a negative return on loans, when considering the origination costs or acquisition premiums paid with respect to these loans. Additionally, consolidation of loans away by competing lenders can result in a decrease of the Company’s servicing portfolio, thereby decreasing fee-based servicing income. Third, increased consolidations of the Company’s own student loans create cash flow risk because the Company incurs upfront consolidation costs, which are in addition to the origination or acquisition costs incurred in connection with the underlying student loans, while extending the repayment schedule of the consolidated loans. The Company’s student loan origination and lending activities could be significantly impacted by the repeal of the single holder rule. The single holder rule, which generally restricted a competitor from consolidating loans away from a holder that owns all of a student’s loans, was abolished effective June 15, 2006. As a result, a substantial portion of the Company’s non-consolidated portfolio could be at risk of being consolidated away by a competitor. On the other hand, the abolition of the rule has also opened up a portion of the rest of the market to the Company that it previously could not access. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s non-Consolidation portfolio was 28% of its total portfolio. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company’s net consolidation originations were $2.7 billion and the consolidation loans lost to external parties were $1.1 billion. The volume of available student loans may decrease in the future and may adversely affect the Company’s income. The Company’s student loan originations generally are limited to students attending eligible educational institutions in the United States. Volumes of originations are greater at some schools than others, and the Company’s ability to remain an active lender at a particular school with concentrated volumes is subject to a variety of risks, including the fact that each school has the option to remove the Company from its “preferred lender” list or to add other lenders to its “preferred lender” list, the risk that a school may enter the FDL Program, or the risk that a school may begin making student loans itself. The Company acquires student loans through forward flow commitments with other student loan lenders, but each of these commitments has a finite term. There can be no assurance that these lenders will renew or extend their existing forward flow commitments on terms that are favorable to the Company, if at all, following their expiration. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, third parties owned approximately 50.5% of the loans the Company serviced. To the extent that third-party servicing clients reduce the volume of student loans that the Company processes on their behalf, the Company’s income would be reduced, and, to the extent the related costs could not be reduced correspondingly, net income could be adversely affected. Such volume reductions occur for a variety of reasons, including if third-party servicing clients commence or increase internal servicing activities, shift volume to another service provider, perhaps because such other service provider does not compete with the client in student loan originations and acquisitions, or exit the FFEL Program completely, for instance as a result of reduced interest rate margins. If the Company does not have effective default prevention programs or the borrowers serviced by the Company otherwise go into default in greater numbers than with other servicing companies, schools and other lenders may choose to utilize the services of companies with lower default rates. In particular, schools are required to keep their default rates at or below certain levels under the Higher Education Act. An increase in the Company’s default rate could be attributed to the schools and accordingly the schools cohort default rates could increase. Such an increase may cause schools to utilize servicers with lower default rates, thereby reducing the Company’s servicing and origination volume. The Company may be limited in its ability to pay dividends or make other payments as a result of the terms of certain outstanding securities issued by the Company. In September 2006, the Company issued certain junior subordinated hybrid securities (the “Hybrid Securities”). So long as the Hybrid Securities remain outstanding, if the Company has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing, then the Company will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to: • declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment regarding, any of the Company’s capital stock; • except as required in connection with the repayment of principal, and except for any partial payments of deferred interest that may be made through the alternative payment mechanism described in the indenture relating to the Hybrid Securities, make 23 Table of Contents any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, or repay, repurchase or redeem any of the Company’s debt securities that rank pari passu with or junior to the Hybrid Securities; or • make any guaranty payments regarding any guaranty by the Company of the subordinated debt securities of any of the Company’s subsidiaries if the guaranty ranks pari passu with or junior in interest to the Hybrid Securities. In addition, if any deferral period lasts longer than one year, the limitation on the Company’s ability to redeem or repurchase any of its securities that rank pari passu with or junior in interest to the Hybrid Securities will continue until the first anniversary of the date on which all deferred interest has been paid or cancelled. If the Company is involved in a business combination where immediately after its consummation more than 50% of the surviving entity’s voting stock is owned by the shareholders of the other party to the business combination, then the immediately preceding sentence will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next interest payment date following the date of consummation of the business combination. However, at any time, including during a deferral period, the Company will be permitted to: • pay dividends or distributions in additional shares of the Company’s capital stock; • declare or pay a dividend in connection with the implementation of a shareholders’ rights plan, or issue stock under such a plan, or redeem or repurchase any rights distributed pursuant to such a plan; and • purchase common stock for issuance pursuant to any employee benefit plans. Failures in the Company’s information technology system could materially disrupt its business. The Company’s servicing and operating processes are highly dependent upon its information technology system infrastructure, and the Company faces the risk of business disruption if failures in its information systems occur, which could have a material impact upon its business and operations. The Company depends heavily on its own computer-based data processing systems in servicing both its own student loans and those of third-party servicing customers. If servicing errors do occur, they may result in a loss of the federal guaranty on the federally insured loans serviced or in a failure to collect amounts due on the student loans that the Company services. The Company regularly backs up its data and maintains detailed disaster recovery plans. With the exception of the Company’s loan servicing systems, the Company does not maintain fully redundant information systems. A major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to information systems could adversely affect the Company’s business. Additionally, loss of information systems for a sustained period of time could have a negative impact on the Company’s performance and ultimately on cash flow in the event the Company were unable to process borrower payments. Transactions with affiliates and potential conflicts of interest of certain of the Company’s officers and directors, including one of its Co-Chief Executive Officers, pose risks to the Company’s shareholders that the Company may not enter into transactions on the same terms that the Company could receive from unrelated, third-parties. The Company has entered into certain contractual arrangements with entities controlled by Michael S. Dunlap, the Company’s Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer and a principal shareholder, and members of his family and, to a lesser extent, with entities in which other directors and members of management hold equity interests or board or management positions. Such arrangements constitute a significant portion of the Company’s business and include sales of student loans and student loan origination rights by such affiliates to the Company. These arrangements may present potential conflicts of interest. Many of these arrangements are with Union Bank and Trust Company (“Union Bank”), in which Michael S. Dunlap owns an indirect interest and of which he serves as non-executive chairman. The Company intends to maintain its relationship with Union Bank, which management believes provides substantial benefits to the Company, although there can be no assurance that any transactions between the Company and entities controlled by Mr. Dunlap, his family, and/or other officers and directors of the Company are, or in the future will be, on terms that are no less favorable than what could be obtained from an unrelated third party. Imposition of personal holding company tax would decrease the Company’s net income. A corporation is considered to be a “personal holding company” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), if (1) at least 60% of its adjusted ordinary gross income is “personal holding company income” (generally, passive income) and (2) at any time during the last half of the taxable year more than half, by value, of its stock is owned by five or fewer individuals, as determined under attribution rules of the Code. If both of these tests are met, a personal holding company is subject to an additional tax on its undistributed personal holding company income, currently at a 15% rate. Five or fewer individuals hold more than half the value of the Company’s stock. In June 2003, the Company submitted a request for a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service seeking a determination that its federally guaranteed student loans qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code. Such a determination would have assured the Company that holding such loans does not make it a personal holding company. Based on its historical practice of not issuing private letter rulings concerning matters that it considers to be primarily factual, however, the Internal Revenue Service has indicated that it will not issue the requested ruling, taking no position on the merits of the legal issue. So long as more than half of the Company’s value continues to be held by five or fewer individuals, if it 24 Table of Contents were to be determined that some portion of its federally guaranteed student loans does not qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code, the Company could become subject to personal holding company tax on its undistributed personal holding company income. The Company continues to believe that neither Nelnet, Inc. nor any of its subsidiaries is a personal holding company. However, even if Nelnet, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries was determined to be a personal holding company, the Company believes that by utilizing intercompany distributions, it could eliminate or substantially eliminate its exposure to personal holding company taxes, although it cannot assure that this will be the case. “Do not call” registries limit the Company’s ability to market its products and services. The Company’s direct marketing operations are or may become subject to additional federal and state “do not call” laws and requirements. In January 2003, the Federal Trade Commission amended its rules to provide for a national “do not call” registry. Under these federal regulations, consumers may have their phone numbers added to the national “do not call” registry. Generally, the Company is prohibited from calling anyone on that registry with whom it does not have an existing relationship. In September 2003, telemarketers first obtained access to the registry and since that time have been required to compare their call lists against the national “do not call” registry at least once every 90 days. The Company is also required to pay a fee to access the registry on a quarterly basis. Enforcement of the federal “do not call” provisions began in the fall of 2003, and the rule provides for fines of up to $11,000 per violation and other possible penalties. This and similar state laws may restrict the Company’s ability to effectively market its products and services to new customers. Furthermore, compliance with this rule may prove difficult, and the Company may incur penalties for improperly conducting its marketing activities. The Company’s inability to maintain its relationships with significant branding and forward flow partners and/or customers could have an adverse impact on its business. The Company’s inability to maintain strong relationships with significant schools, branding and forward flow partners, servicing customers, guaranty agencies, and software licensees could result in loss of: • loan origination volume with borrowers attending certain schools; • loan origination volume generated by some of the Company’s branding and forward flow partners; • loan and guaranty servicing volume generated by some of the Company’s loan servicing and guaranty agency customers; and • software licensing volume generated by some of the Company’s licensees. The Company cannot make any assurances that its forward flow channel lenders or its branding partners will continue their relationships with the Company. Loss of a strong branding or forward flow partner or relationships with schools from which a significant volume of student loans is directly or indirectly acquired, could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The business of servicing Canadian student loans by EDULINX is limited to a small group of servicing customers and the agreement with the largest of such customers is currently scheduled to expire on March 31, 2008. As discussed in Part I, Item 1, “Business – Operating Segments – Student Loan and Guaranty Servicing”, EDULINX has been notified that the Government of Canada has decided to award a competitive contract to provide financial and related administrative services in support of the CSLP, upon the expiration of the current EDULINX contract for such services, to another service provider. During 2006, the Company recognized $53.9 million, or 28.3% of its loan and guaranty servicing income, from this customer. As a result of the non-renewal of the CSLP contract, the Company is exploring various options for EDULINX. The Company may incur charges or losses in connection with the disposal, through sale or otherwise, or continued operation of EDULINX. Such losses or charges may be significant and would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations. The Company’s failure to successfully manage business and certain asset acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. The Company may acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel, or through investments in other companies. During 2004 through 2006, the Company acquired the stock and certain assets of 17 different entities. Any acquisition or investment is subject to a number of risks. Such risks may include diversion of management time and resources, disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, difficulties in integrating acquisitions, dilution to existing stockholders if the Company’s common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines. The Company’s failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, the Company’s expectations to the accretive nature of the acquisitions could be inaccurate. 25 Table of Contents ================================================================================ ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2006 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 