ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe operate our business in a highly competitive and regulated environment. We are subject to risks including, but not limited to, market, liquidity, credit, regulatory, technology, operational, security, and other business risks such as reputation damage related to negative publicity and dependencies on key personnel, customers, vendors, and systems. This section highlights specific risks that could affect us. Although this section attempts to highlight key risk factors, other risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict all risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information included in this report. Student Loan PortfolioOur student loan portfolio is subject to certain risks related to interest rates, our ability to manage the risks related to interest rates, prepayment, and credit risk, each of which could reduce the expected cash flows and earnings on our portfolio. 11Interest rate risk - basis and repricing riskWe are exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of our student loan assets do not match the interest rate characteristics of the funding for those assets.We fund the majority of our student loan assets with one-month or three-month LIBOR indexed floating rate securities. In addition, the interest rates on some of our debt are set via a “dutch auction” or through a periodic remarketing. Meanwhile, the interest earned on our student loan assets is indexed to one-month LIBOR and Treasury bill rates. The different interest rate characteristics of our loan assets and our liabilities funding these assets results in basis risk. We also face repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on our liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as once a quarter, in contrast to the timing of the interest rate resets on our assets, which generally occur daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause our student loan spread to compress, while in a rising interest rate environment, it may cause the spread to increase.As of December 31, 2013, we had $25.0 billion and $1.0 billion of FFELP loans indexed to the one-month LIBOR and the three-month Treasury bill rate, respectively, both of which reset daily, and $16.3 billion of debt indexed to three-month LIBOR, which resets quarterly, and $7.8 billion of debt indexed to one-month LIBOR, which resets monthly. While these indices are all short term in nature with rate movements that are highly correlated over a longer period of time, there have been points in recent history related to the U.S. and European debt crisis that have caused volatility to be high and correlation to be reduced. There can be no assurance that the indices' historically high level of correlation will not be disrupted in the future due to capital market dislocations or other factors not within our control. In such circumstances, our earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. We have entered into basis swaps to hedge our basis and repricing risk. For these derivatives, we receive three-month LIBOR set discretely in advance and pay one-month LIBOR plus or minus a spread as defined in the agreements (the 1:3 Basis Swaps). Interest rate risk - loss of floor incomeFFELP loans originated prior to April 1, 2006 generally earn interest at the higher of the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time, or a floating rate based on the Special Allowance Payments ("SAP") formula set by the Department. The SAP rate is based on an applicable index plus a fixed spread that depends on loan type, origination date, and repayment status. We generally finance our student loan portfolio with variable rate debt. In low and/or certain declining interest rate environments, when the fixed borrower rate is higher than the SAP rate, these student loans earn at a fixed rate while the interest on the variable rate debt typically continues to reflect the low and/or declining interest rates. In these interest rate environments, we may earn additional spread income that we refer to as floor income.Depending on the type of loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to an annual rate each July 1. As a result, for loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, we may earn floor income for an extended period of time, which we refer to as fixed rate floor income, and for those loans where the borrower rate is reset annually on July 1, we may earn floor income to the next reset date, which we refer to as variable rate floor income.For the year ended December 31, 2013, we earned $148.4 million of fixed rate floor income, net of $31.0 million of settlements paid related to derivatives used to hedge loans earning fixed rate floor income. Absent the use of derivative instruments, a rise in interest rates will reduce the amount of floor income received and this will have an impact on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increased financing costs, until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with their SAP formulas. In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed rate loans effectively convert to variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced. Interest rate risk - use of derivativesWe utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate sensitivity. Our derivative instruments are intended as economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting; consequently, the change in fair value, called the “mark-to-market,” of these derivative instruments is included in our operating results. Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve can and have significantly impacted the valuation of our derivatives. Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve will impact our financial position and results of operations. Although we believe our derivative instruments are highly effective, developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. Because many of our derivatives are not balance guaranteed to a particular pool of student loans, we are subject to prepayment risk that could 12result in being under or over hedged, which could result in material losses. In addition, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses if interest rates move in a materially different way than was expected based on the environment when the derivatives were entered into. As a result, we cannot offer any assurance that our economic hedging activities will effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition.By using derivative instruments, we are exposed to credit and market risk. We attempt to manage credit and market risks associated with interest rates by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken and by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by our risk committee. As of December 31, 2013, all of our derivative counterparties had investment grade credit ratings. We also have a policy of requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Master Agreement.When the fair value of a derivative contract is positive (an asset on our balance sheet), this generally indicates that the counterparty owes us if the derivative was settled. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk with such counterparty is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative less any collateral held by us. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty, we would have a loss equal to the amount the derivative is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of our derivatives which had a positive fair value in our favor (an asset on our balance sheet) was $62.5 million, for which the Company held $16.0 million of collateral. When the fair value of a derivative instrument is negative (a liability on our balance sheet), we would owe the counterparty if the derivative was settled and, therefore, have no immediate credit risk. If the negative fair value of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, we may have to make a collateral deposit with the counterparty. The threshold at which we may be required to post collateral is dependent upon our unsecured credit rating. The Company believes any downgrades from its current unsecured credit ratings (Standard & Poor's: BBB- (stable outlook) and Moody's: Ba1 (stable outlook)), would not result in additional collateral requirements of a material nature. In addition, no counterparty has the right to terminate its contracts in the event of downgrades from the current ratings. However, some derivative contracts have mutual optional termination provisions that can be exercised during the years 2014 through 2023. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of derivatives with early termination provisions was a positive $10.1 million (an asset on our balance sheet).Interest rate movements have an impact on the amount of collateral we are required to deposit with our derivative instrument counterparties. Based on the interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2013 (for both the floor income and hybrid debt hedges), if the forward interest rate curve was one basis point lower for the remaining duration of these derivatives, we would have been required to post $0.9 million in additional collateral. In addition, if the forward basis curve between 1-month and 3-month LIBOR experienced a one basis point reduction in spread for the remaining duration of our 1:3 Basis Swaps derivatives (in which we pay 1-month LIBOR and receive 3-month LIBOR), we would have been required to post $7.7 million in additional collateral. With our current derivative portfolio, we do not currently anticipate a near term movement in interest rates having a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources, nor expect future movements in interest rates to have a material impact on our ability to meet potential collateral deposit requirements with our counterparties. Due to the existing low interest rate environment, our exposure to downward movements in interest rates on our interest rate swaps is limited. In addition, we believe the historical high correlation between 1-month and 3-month LIBOR limits our exposure to interest rate movements on the 1:3 Basis Swaps. However, if interest rates move materially and negatively impact the fair value of our derivative portfolio or if we enter into additional derivatives in which the fair value of such derivatives become negative, we could be required to deposit a significant amount of collateral with our derivative instrument counterparties. The collateral deposits, if significant, could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of our derivatives which had a negative fair value (a liability on our balance sheet) was $18.0 million, and we had $3.6 million posted as collateral with derivative counterparties. Our outstanding cross-currency interest rate swap is a derivative entered into as a result of an asset-backed security financing. This derivative was entered into at the securitization trust level with the counterparty and does not contain credit contingent features related to our or the trust's credit ratings. As such, there are no collateral requirements and the impact of changes to foreign currency rates has no impact on the amount of collateral we would be required to deposit with the counterparty on this derivative.Prepayment riskHigher rates of prepayments of student loans, including consolidations by the Department through the Federal Direct Loan Program, would reduce our interest income. 13Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty. Prepayments may result from consolidations of student loans by the Department through the Federal Direct Loan Program, which historically tend to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments, from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment, and from voluntary full or partial prepayments, among other things.In 2011, the White House issued an Executive Order allowing a short-term consolidation initiative to eligible student loan borrowers that began in January 2012 and ended June 30, 2012. This initiative allowed student loan borrowers with at least one FFELP loan and at least one federal student loan owned by the Department to consolidate their loans into a Special Direct Consolidation Loan. During 2012, we lost $936.4 million of FFELP loans as a result of this initiative. If the federal government and the Department initiate similar consolidation loan programs and/or future consolidation marketing campaigns, these initiatives could further increase prepayments and reduce interest income. The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, political, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates, federal budgetary pressures, and the availability of alternative financing. Our profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which reduce the balance of loans outstanding and, therefore, the amount of interest income we receive. Credit riskFuture losses due to defaults on loans held by us, or loans sold to unaffiliated third parties which we are obligated to repurchase in the event of certain delinquencies, present credit risk which could adversely affect our earnings.The vast majority (99.7 percent) of our student loan portfolio is federally guaranteed. The allowance for loan losses from the federally insured loan portfolio is based on periodic evaluations of our loan portfolios, considering loans in repayment versus those in nonpaying status, delinquency status, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, trends in student loan claims rejected for payment by guarantors, changes to federal student loan programs, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. The federal government currently guarantees 97 percent of the principal and interest on federally insured student loans disbursed on and after July 1, 2006 (and 98 percent for those loans disbursed on and after October 1, 1993 and prior to July 1, 2006), which limits our loss exposure on the outstanding balance of our federally insured portfolio. Student loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993 are fully insured for both principal and interest.Our non-federally insured loans are unsecured, with neither a government nor a private insurance guarantee. Accordingly, we bear the full risk of loss on these loans if the borrower and co-borrower, if applicable, default. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses on the non-federally insured loans, we consider several factors, including: loans in repayment versus those in a nonpaying status, delinquency status, type of program, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. We place a non-federally insured loan on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal and interest is 30 days past due, and charge off the loan when the collection of principal and interest is 120 days past due.The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. As of December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses was $55.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $18.5 million. The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that management believes is appropriate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors, such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes, and other unforeseen future trends. Recent general economic and employment conditions have led to higher rates of student loan defaults. If actual performance is significantly worse than currently estimated, it would materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in our statements of income.We have participated interests in non-federally insured loans to unaffiliated third parties. As of December 31, 2013, we had $120.9 million (par value) of loans participated under these agreements that have been accounted for as loan sales. Accordingly, the participation interests sold are not included on our consolidated balance sheet. Under the terms of the servicing agreements, our servicing operations are obligated to repurchase loans subject to the participation interests in the event such loans become 60 or 90 days delinquent. In addition, we have sold a portfolio of non-federally insured loans in which we have retained the credit risk and will pay cash to purchase back any loans which become 60 days delinquent. As of December 31, 2013, the outstanding balance of loans related to this loan sale was $63.6 million (par value). As of December 31, 2013, we had a reserve related to these servicing and credit risk obligations of $16.1 million included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. The evaluation of the 14reserve related to these loans is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that may be subject to changes. If actual performance is worse than estimated, it would negatively affect our results of operations.Liquidity and FundingWe fund student loans in FFELP warehouse facilities. The current maturities of these facilities do not match the maturity of the related funded assets. Therefore, we will need to modify and/or find alternative funding related to the student loan collateral in these facilities prior to their expiration. If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities.The majority of our portfolio of student loans is funded through asset-backed securitizations that are structured to substantially match the maturity of the funded assets, and there are minimal liquidity issues related to these facilities. We also have student loans funded in shorter term FFELP warehouse facilities. The current maturities of these facilities do not match the maturity of the related funded assets. Therefore, we will need to modify and/or find alternative funding related to the student loan collateral in these facilities prior to their expiration.As of December 31, 2013, we maintained three FFELP warehouse facilities as described in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report. These facilities have revolving financing structures supported by 364-day liquidity provisions, which expire in 2014 and 2015. In the event we are unable to renew the liquidity provisions for a facility, the facility would become a term facility at a stepped-up cost, with no additional student loans being eligible for financing, and we would be required to refinance the existing loans in the facility by its final maturity date in 2016. The FFELP warehouse facilities also contain financial covenants relating to levels of our consolidated net worth, ratio of adjusted EBITDA to corporate debt interest, and unencumbered cash. Any noncompliance with these covenants could result in a requirement for the immediate repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the facilities. As of December 31, 2013, $1.4 billion was outstanding under the warehouse facilities and $88.5 million was advanced as equity support. If the securitization market deteriorated, the amount of equity support required could increase, subject to the limits of each facility.If we are unable to obtain cost-effective funding alternatives for the loans in the FFELP warehouse facilities prior to the facilities' maturities, our cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities.We are exposed to mark-to-formula collateral support risk on our FFELP warehouse facilities.One of our warehouse facilities provides formula based advance rates based on market conditions, which requires equity support to be posted to the facility. The other two warehouse facilities have static advance rates that require initial equity for loan funding, but do not require increased equity based on market movements. As of December 31, 2013, $88.5 million was advanced as equity support under these facilities. In the event that a significant change in the valuation of loans results in additional required equity funding support for the warehouse facilities greater than what we can provide, the warehouse facilities could be subject to an event of default resulting in termination of the facilities and an acceleration of the repayment provisions. If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities. A default on the FFELP warehouse facilities would result in an event of default on our $275.0 million unsecured line of credit that would result in the outstanding balance on the line of credit becoming immediately due and payable. We are subject to economic and market fluctuations related to our investments. We currently invest a substantial portion of our excess cash in student loan asset-backed securities and other investments that are subject to market fluctuations. The amount of these investments was $192.0 million as of December 31, 2013, including $188.3 million in student loan asset-backed securities. These securities carry expected returns of approximately LIBOR + 200-500 basis points to maturity. While the vast majority of these securities are backed by FFELP government guaranteed student loan collateral, most are in subordinate tranches and have a greater risk of loss with respect to the applicable student loan collateral pool. While we expect these securities to have few credit issues if held to maturity, they do have limited liquidity, and we could incur a significant loss if the investments were sold prior to maturity at an amount less than the original purchase price. OperationsRisks associated with our operations, as further discussed below, include those related to our information technology systems and potential security and privacy breaches, our ability to manage performance related to regulatory requirements, and the importance of maintaining scale by retaining existing customers and attracting new business opportunities. 15A failure in or breach of one of our operational or information systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors, could disrupt our businesses. These types of failures or breaches, including but not limited to cyber attacks, could result in a denial of service or misuse of confidential or proprietary information which could damage our reputation, increase costs, and jeopardize existing business contracts or result in regulatory penalties. As a loan servicer, hosted loan servicing software provider, and payment processor for the federal government, financial institutions, and the education industry that serves millions of customers through the Internet and other distribution channels across the U.S., we depend on our ability to process, secure, record, and monitor a large number of customer transactions and confidential information on a continuous basis. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to support and process customer transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our business segments rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC's, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of Company or customer confidential, proprietary, and other information, or disrupt the Company's or our customers' business operations. A cyber attack or information security breach of this nature could significantly affect our ability to retain strategic business customers, which could lead to increased costs to retain customers or result in regulatory penalties or a material loss of future revenue. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, data centers, data storage locations, collection services, distribution centers, or other vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.Although to date we have not experienced a material loss relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future or that a current threat remains undetected at this time. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of our servicing contracts, including our loan servicing contract with the Department. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our training, controls, processes, and practices designed to protect and monitor our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Company and each of our business segments. Even though we maintain technology and telecommunication, professional services, media, network security, privacy, injury, and liability insurance coverage to offset costs that may be incurred as a result of a cyber attack, information security breach or extended system outage, this insurance coverage may not cover all costs of such incidents.As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.Additionally, we must continually and cost-effectively maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure in order to successfully deliver competitive products and services to our customers. The widespread adoption of new technologies and market demands could require substantial expenditures to enhance system infrastructure and existing products and services. If we fail to enhance and scale our systems and operational infrastructure or products and services, our operating segments may lose their competitive advantage and this could adversely affect financial and operating results. We also face the risk of business disruption if system outages occur as a result of changes in infrastructure, introduction of new software or software enhancements, relocation of infrastructure, or failure to perform required services, which could have a material impact upon our reputation and our ability to retain customers. Although we have business continuity management plans, a major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to or the loss of our information systems or business operations for a sustained period of time could adversely affect our business, cash flows, and ability to retain customers. 16We must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of our federally insured loans, and we may incur penalties or lose our guarantees if we fail to meet these requirements.As of December 31, 2013, we serviced $25.2 billion of FFELP loans that maintained a federal guarantee, of which $21.4 billion and $3.8 billion were owned by the Company and third-party entities, respectively.We must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guarantee on our federally insured loans. The federal guarantee on our federally insured loans is conditional based on our compliance with origination, servicing, and collection policies set by the Department and guaranty agencies. Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department's and guaranty agency regulations may risk partial or complete loss of the guarantee. If we experience a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another, errors in the loan origination process, establishment of the borrower's repayment status, and due diligence or claim filing processes), it could result in the loan guarantee being revoked or denied. In most cases we have the opportunity to cure these deficiencies by following a prescribed cure process which usually involves obtaining the borrower's reaffirmation of the debt. However, not all deficiencies can be cured.We are allowed three years from the date of the loan rejection to cure most loan rejections. If a cure cannot be achieved during this three year period, insurance is permanently revoked, although we maintain our right to collect the loan proceeds from the borrower. In cases where we purchase loans that were serviced previously by another servicing institution and we identify a serving deficiency by the prior servicer, we may, based on the terms of the purchase agreement, have the ability to require the previous lender to repurchase the rejected loans.A guaranty agency may also assess an interest penalty upon claim payment if the deficiency does not result in a loan rejection. These interest penalties are not subject to cure provisions and are typically related to isolated instances of due diligence deficiencies. Additionally, we may become ineligible for special allowance payment benefits from the time of the first deficiency leading to the loan rejection through the date that the loan is cured.Failure to comply with federal and guarantor regulations may result in penalties, a loss of special allowance payment benefits, or a loss of the federal guarantee. A loss of a federal guarantee on a third party serviced loan could subject us to potential claims from our servicing customers.Our largest fee-based customer, the Department of Education, represents 23 percent of our fee-based revenue. Failure to extend the Department contract, unfavorable contract modifications, or our inability to consistently surpass competitor performance metrics, could significantly lower loan servicing revenue and hinder future servicing opportunities. We are one of four private sector companies awarded a student loan servicing contract by the Department to provide additional servicing capacity for loans owned by the Department. The Department allocates new loan volume among the four servicers based on five performance metrics. The amount of future allocations of new loan volume could be negatively impacted if we are unable to consistently surpass competitor performance metrics. The contract spans five years (through June 2014), with one five-year extension at the option of the Department. On October 25, 2013, we received a letter from the Department notifying us of the Department’s intent to exercise its optional ordering period to extend the term of the contract for an additional five years through June 16, 2019, with actual extension subject to the availability of government funds. As of December 31, 2013, we were servicing $110.5 billion of loans for 5.3 million borrowers under this contract. During 2013, we earned $97.4 million in revenue under this contract. In the event that the Department contract is not extended or substantial unfavorable modifications are made to the existing Department contract or as part of the extension, loan servicing revenue would decrease significantly.We are partially dependent on the existing Department contract to broaden servicing operations with the Department and other federal and state agencies. The size and importance of this contract provides us the scale and infrastructure needed to profitably expand into new government and commercial servicing opportunities. Failure to extend the Department contract would significantly hinder future servicing opportunities.Federal budget deficits and their effect on budgetary and regulatory provisions could adversely impact future fee-based revenue.A significant portion of guaranty servicing revenue earned by us relates to rehabilitating defaulted FFELP loans (collection services). In December 2013, President Obama signed a federal budget agreement passed by Congress that includes provisions for the reduction of payments by the Department to guaranty agencies for assisting student loan borrowers with the rehabilitation of defaulted loans under FFELP, which will become effective on July 1, 2014. These provisions reduce the amount guaranty agencies retain upon successful rehabilitation from 37 percent to 16 percent of the loan balance. We earn revenue from rehabilitating 17defaulted FFELP student loans on behalf of guaranty agencies. The decrease in the retention percent earned by guaranty agencies will negatively impact our guaranty collections revenue, and we believe there will not be a substantial decrease in costs incurred to earn this revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $54.2 million in revenue from rehabilitating defaulted FFELP loans for guaranty agencies. We anticipate that guaranty agencies will reduce their level of FFELP student loan rehabilitation activities in response to the reduced payment framework. The federal budget agreement also eliminates mandatory funding the Department was authorized to use to pay eligible and qualified not-for-profit (NFP) student loan servicers who have contracts with the Department. The agreement does not require the termination of any existing servicing contracts as long as sufficient discretionary funds are appropriated. However, the Department will no longer consider new or existing requests for modifications to existing NFP arrangements. Our revenue associated with hosted software sales to NFPs who service loans for the Department was $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. These budgetary provisions will limit future growth in NFP loan servicing software sales and could lower future revenue from existing NFP clients.Our ability to continue to grow and maintain our contracts with commercial businesses and government agencies is partly dependent on our ability to maintain compliance with various laws, regulations, and industry standards applicable to those contracts.We are subject to various laws, regulations, and industry standards related to our commercial and government contracts. In most cases, these contracts are subject to termination rights, audits, and investigations. If we are found to be in noncompliance with the contract provisions or applicable laws, regulations, or standards, or the contracted party exercises its termination or other rights for that or other reasons, our reputation could be negatively affected, and our ability to compete for new contracts or maintain existing contracts could diminish. If this were to occur, our results of operations from existing contracts and future opportunities for new contracts could be negatively affected.Regulatory and Legal Federal and state laws and regulations can restrict our business, and noncompliance with these laws and regulations could result in penalties, litigation, reputation damage, and a loss of customers. Our operating segments and customers are heavily regulated by federal and state government regulatory agencies. The laws and regulations enforced by these agencies are proposed or enacted to protect consumers and the financial industry as a whole, not necessarily the Company, our operating segments, or our shareholders. We have procedures and controls in place to monitor compliance with numerous federal and state laws and regulations and believe we are in compliance with such laws and regulations. However, because these laws and regulations are complex, differ between jurisdictions, and are often subject to interpretation, or because of a result of unintended errors, we may, from time to time, inadvertently violate these laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and requires the time and attention of management. These costs divert capital and focus away from efforts intended to grow our business. If we do not successfully comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could incur fines or penalties, lose existing or new customer contracts, or suffer damage to our reputation. Changes in these laws and regulations can significantly alter our business environment, limit business operations, and increase costs of doing business, and we cannot predict the impact such changes would have on our profitability. The use of Executive Order provisions from the Executive Branch of the Federal Government has created new regulations that have impacted our Company. The use of Executive Order provisions to define regulations creates additional uncertainty and risks within the education and student loan industry.Our Student Loan and Guaranty Servicing and Asset Generation and Management operating segments are subject to the Higher Education Act and various consumer protection and privacy regulations. These operating segments take what we believe are necessary steps to evaluate, monitor, and comply with these regulations. However, the Department or other government agencies could, based on regulatory interpretation, determine we are not compliant. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to a loss of the guarantee on our federally insured loans, increased servicing costs to cure such loans, or suspension or termination of our rights to participate as a servicer. In addition, although new FFELP loan originations were eliminated effective July 1, 2010, we continue to face risks from potential legislative changes or other government initiatives with respect to existing FFELP loans, including potential initiatives to allow or encourage student loan borrowers to consolidate or otherwise refinance their existing FFELP loans. Certain provisions of the Higher Education Act that became effective July 1, 2011 have impacted our Enrollment Services operating segment in connection with services it provides to for-profit schools. To be eligible to participate in federal student aid programs, the Higher Education Act requires educational institutions, including for-profit schools, to enter into a program participation agreement with the Department. This agreement includes a number of requirements with which an institution must comply to be 18granted initial and continuing eligibility to participate in the federal student aid program. The related regulations impose strict liability on educational institutions for misrepresentations made by entities, like us, who contract with these institutions to provide marketing services. As a result, our school customers have demanded, and in limited circumstances we have agreed to, limited contractual indemnification provisions for our customers that cover actions by our third-party inquiry generation vendors. Significantly all inquiry generation and management revenue (which makes up approximately 80 percent of total revenue included in the Enrollment Services operating segment) is generated from for-profit schools. The regulations discussed above may subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our cost of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to serve for-profit schools. In addition, the regulations could negatively impact enrollment at for-profit schools, which could adversely affect revenue. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory framework for the financial services industry within the United States, and established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”), which has broad authority to regulate a wide range of consumer financial products and services. On December 3, 2013, the CFPB issued a rule that allows the CFPB to supervise nonbank student loan servicers that handle more than one million borrowers, including the Company, thus giving the CFPB broad authority to examine, investigate, supervise, and otherwise regulate our businesses, including the authority to impose fines and require changes with respect to any practices that the CFPB finds to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. In addition, the CFPB maintains an online system that allows consumers to log complaints, which could impact future CFPB decisions with respect to regulatory, enforcement, or examination focus. There is significant uncertainty regarding how the CFPB's strategies and priorities will impact our businesses and our results of operations going forward. Actions by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter our services, causing them to be less attractive or effective and impair our ability to offer them profitably. In the event that the CFPB changes regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or modifies past regulatory guidance, our compliance costs and litigation exposure could increase. Our litigation exposure could also increase if the CFPB exercises its authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses in contracts for consumer financial services. Recent reports released by the CFPB have clearly indicated their focus to protect student loan borrowers. This additional focus and regulatory oversight will most likely increase our operating costs and could limit revenue opportunities. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") and the SEC with substantial authority to regulate over-the-counter derivative transactions, and includes provisions that require derivative transactions to be executed through an exchange or central clearinghouse. These regulations could affect future student loan asset-backed securities transactions by requiring issuers of asset-backed securities or persons who organize and initiate asset-backed securities transactions to retain a portion of the underlying assets' credit risk, disclose and report requirements for each tranche of asset-backed securities, including new loan-level data requirements, and disclose requirements relating to the representations, warranties, and enforcement mechanisms available to investors. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these processes and regulations, they may increase our costs and cash collateral margin requirements and affect the terms of future asset-backed securities transactions and derivatives used to manage financial risks related to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act added new provisions commonly referred to as the “Volcker Rule” to U.S. federal banking laws which generally prohibit various covered banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading of financial instruments and limit such entities’ investments in, and relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds. On December 10, 2013, five U.S. federal regulatory agencies issued final regulations to implement the Volcker Rule. Banking entities subject to the Volcker Rule are required to fully conform their activities and investments to the final regulations by July 21, 2015. As discussed below under “Principal Shareholder and Related Party Transactions,” we have certain relationships with Farmers & Merchants Investment Inc. (“F&M”), which controls Union Bank and Trust Company (“Union Bank”). F&M and Union Bank are banking entities subject to the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule and the final implementing regulations are very complex, and many aspects of their ultimate interpretation, scope, and implementation remain uncertain. We are currently assessing the Volcker Rule and the final regulations, and monitoring for further regulatory guidance and other developments thereunder, to determine the extent to which our activities may be affected.As a result of the Reconciliation Act of 2010, interest income on our existing FFELP loan portfolio, as well as fee-based revenue from guaranty and third-party FFELP servicing and FFELP loan servicing software licensing and consulting fees will decline over time as our and our third-party lender clients' FFELP loan portfolios are paid down.The Reconciliation Act of 2010 prohibits new loan originations under the FFEL Program and requires that all new federal loan originations be made through the Federal Direct Loan Program. The law did not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP loans. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, we recognized approximately $406 million, $344 million, and $367 million, respectively, of interest income on our FFELP loan portfolio, approximately $106 million, $96 million, and $91 million, 19respectively, in guaranty and third-party FFELP servicing revenue, and approximately $7 million, $6 million, and $7 million, respectively, in FFELP loan servicing software licensing and consulting fees related to the FFEL Program. These amounts will decline over time as our and our third-party lender clients' FFELP loan portfolios are paid down. If the Company is unable to grow or develop new revenue streams, the Company's consolidated revenue and operating margin will decrease as a result of the decline in FFELP loan volume outstanding.Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease our net income. Federal and state income tax law and regulations are often complex and require interpretation. The nexus standards and the sourcing of receipts from intangible personal property and services have been the subject of state audits and litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. As the U.S. Congress and U.S. Supreme Court have not provided clear guidance in this regard, conflicting state laws and court decisions create significant uncertainty and expense for taxpayers conducting interstate commerce. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact our results of operations. If states enact legislation, alter apportionment methodologies, or aggressively apply the income tax nexus standards, we may become subject to additional state taxes. From time to time, we engage in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. Examples of such transactions include asset and business acquisitions and dispositions, financing transactions, apportionment, nexus standards, and income recognition. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax consequences of these transactions. We prepare and file tax returns based on the interpretation of tax laws and regulations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance, we establish reserves for tax contingencies related to deductions and credits that we may be unable to sustain. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts ultimately owed are recorded in the period they become known. Adjustments to our reserves could have a material effect on our financial statements. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations, or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of lawsuits, investigations, or similar matters arising out of our business operations. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. If the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for any particular period. Principal Shareholder and Related Party TransactionsOur Executive Chairman beneficially owns 67.4 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders and effectively has control over all matters at our Company.Michael S. Dunlap, our Executive Chairman and a principal shareholder, beneficially owns 67.4 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders. In addition, Mr. Dunlap, Stephen F. Butterfield, our Vice Chairman, and Angela L. Muhleisen, Mr. Dunlap's sister, beneficially own stock that in the aggregate has 82.6 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders. Accordingly, each member of the Board of Directors and each member of management has been elected or effectively appointed by Mr. Dunlap and can be removed by Mr. Dunlap. As a result, Mr. Dunlap, as Executive Chairman and controlling shareholder, has control over all matters at our Company and has the ability to take actions that benefit him and Ms. Muhleisen but may not benefit other minority shareholders, and may otherwise exercise his control in a manner with which other minority shareholders may not agree or which they may not consider to be in their best interests.Our contractual arrangements and transactions with Union Bank, which is under common control with us, present conflicts of interest and pose risks to our shareholders that the terms may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated third parties.Union Bank is controlled by F&M, which owns 81.4 percent of Union Bank's common stock and 15.4 percent of Union Bank's non-voting non-convertible preferred stock. Mr. Dunlap, a significant shareholder, as well as Executive Chairman, and a member of our Board of Directors, along with his spouse and children, owns or controls a total of 39.3 percent of the stock of F&M, and Mr. Dunlap's sister, Angela L. Muhleisen, along with her husband and children, owns or controls 38.4 percent of F&M stock. Mr. 20Dunlap serves as a Director and Chairman of F&M. Ms. Muhleisen serves as Director and President of F&M and as a Director, Chairperson, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank. Union Bank is deemed to have beneficial ownership of various shares of Nelnet it holds because it serves in a capacity of trustee or account manager and may share voting and/or investment power with respect to such shares. As of December 31, 2013, Union Bank was deemed to beneficially own 11.5 percent of the voting rights of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, Mr. Dunlap and Ms. Muhleisen beneficially owned 67.4 percent and 12.7 percent, respectively, of the voting rights of our outstanding common stock.We have entered into certain contractual arrangements with Union Bank, including loan purchases, loan servicing, loan participations, banking services, 529 Plan administration services, lease arrangements, and various other investment and advisory services. The net aggregate impact on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 related to the transactions with Union Bank was income of $16.6 million, $11.9 million, and $9.4 million, respectively. See note 19 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional information related to the transactions between us and Union Bank.Transactions between Union Bank and us are generally based on available market information for comparable assets, products, and services and are extensively negotiated. In addition, all related party transactions between Union Bank and us are approved by both the Union Bank Board of Directors and our Board of Directors. Furthermore, Union Bank is subject to regulatory oversight and review by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance. The FDIC and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance regularly review Union Bank's transactions with affiliates. The regulatory standard applied to the bank falls under Regulation W, which places restrictions on certain “covered” transactions with affiliates. We intend to maintain our relationship with Union Bank, which our management believes provides certain benefits to us. Those benefits include Union Bank's knowledge of and experience in the FFELP industry, its willingness to provide services, and at times liquidity and capital resources, on an expedient basis, and the proximity of Union Bank to our corporate headquarters located in Lincoln, Nebraska.The majority of the transactions and arrangements with Union Bank are not offered to unrelated third parties or subject to competitive bids. Accordingly, these transactions and arrangements not only present conflicts of interest, but also pose the risk to our shareholders that the terms of such transactions and arrangements may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated third parties. Moreover, we may have and/or may enter into contracts and business transactions with related parties that benefit Mr. Dunlap and his sister, as well as other related parties, that may not benefit us and/or our minority shareholders.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe Company has no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 21