ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate our business in a highly competitive and regulated environment. We are subject to business risks including, but not limited to, operating in markets that are highly competitive, negative publicity and reputation damage, and the impact of a sustained economic downturn. This risk factors section highlights specific risks that could affect us. Although this section attempts to highlight key risk factors, other risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict all risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information included in this report. 14 Student Loan Portfolio Our student loan portfolio is subject to certain risks related to interest rates, our ability to manage the risks related to interest rates, prepayment, and credit risk, each of which could reduce the expected cash flows and earnings on our portfolio. Interest rate risk – basis and repricing risk We are exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of our student loan assets do not match the interest rate characteristics of the funding for those assets. We fund the majority of our student loan assets with 3-month LIBOR indexed floating rate securities. In addition, the interest rates on some of our debt are set via a “dutch auction” or through a periodic remarketing. Meanwhile, the margins on our student loan assets are indexed to treasury bill and commercial paper rates. The different interest rate characteristics of our loan assets and liabilities funding these assets results in basis risk. We also face repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on our liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as every quarter, in contrast to the timing of the interest rate resets on our assets, which generally occur daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause our student loan spread to com press, while in a rising interest rate environment, it may cause the spread to increase. As of December 31, 2010, we had $22.8 billion of FFELP loans indexed to the fiscal quarter average rate of daily financial commercial paper rates and $1.0 billion indexed to the fiscal quarter average rate of 13-week Treasury Bill auctions, and $19.8 billion of debt to fund such loans indexed to three-month LIBOR in which the rate resets discretely in advance. While these indices are all short term in nature with rate movements that are highly correlated over a longer period of time, there have been points in recent history where volatility has been high and correlation has been reduced. There can be no assurance that the indices’ historically high level of correlation will not be disrupted in the future due to capital market dislocations or other factors not within our control. In such ci rcumstances, our earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. See Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.” Interest rate risk – loss of floor income We are exposed to interest rate risk because of the interest rate characteristics of certain of our student loan assets and the interest rate characteristics of the related funding of those assets. FFELP loans originated prior to April 1, 2006 generally earn interest at the higher of a floating rate based on the Special Allowance Payment or SAP formula set by the Department and the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time. We generally finance our student loan portfolio with variable rate debt. In low and/or declining interest rate environments, when the fixed borrower rate is higher than the rate produced by the SAP formula, our student loans earn at a fixed rate while the interest on the variable rate debt typically continues to decline. In these interest rate environments, we may earn additional spread income that we refer to as floor income. Depending on the type of loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to an annual rate each July 1. As a result, for loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, we may earn floor income for an extended period of time, which we refer to as fixed rate floor income, and for those loans where the borrower rate is reset annually on July 1, we may earn floor income to the next reset date, which we refer to as variable rate floor income. In accordance with legislation enacted in 2006, lenders are required to rebate fixed rate floor income and variable rate floor income to the Department for all new FFELP loans originated on or after April 1, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we earned $132.2 million of fixed rate floor income, net of $19.6 million of settlements paid related to derivatives used to hedge loans earning fixed rate floor income. Absent the use of derivative instruments and apart from potential repricing benefits associated with the mismatch between the interest reset of the loan assets and debt securities, a rise in interest rates will reduce the amount of floor income received and this will have an impact on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increased financing costs, until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with their SAP formulas. In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed rate loans effectivel y convert to variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced. See Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk.” 15 Interest rate risk – use of derivatives We utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate sensitivity. Our derivative instruments are intended as economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting; consequently, the change in fair value, called the “mark-to-market,” of these derivative instruments is included in our operating results. Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve can and have significantly impacted the valuation of our derivatives. Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve will impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. Although we believe our derivative instruments are highly effective, because many of our derivatives are not balance guaranteed to a particular pool of student loans, we are subject to prepayment risk that could result in our being under or over hedged, which could result in material losses. In addition, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses if interest rates move in a materially different way than was expected based on the environment when the derivatives were entered into. As a result, we cannot offer any assurance that our economic hedging activit ies will effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity, or have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. By using derivative instruments, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk and market risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument is negative (a liability on our balance sheet), we would owe the counterparty if the derivative was settled and, therefore, have no immediate credit risk with the counterparty. Additionally, if the negative fair value of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, we may be required to maintain a collateral deposit with the counterparty. The threshold at which we post collateral is dependent upon our unsecured credit rating. If our credit ratings are downgraded from current levels or if interest and foreign currency exchange rates move materially, we could be required to deposit a significant amount of collateral with our derivative instrument counterparties. The collateral deposits, if significant, could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our derivatives which had a negative fair value (a liability on our balance sheet) was $16.1 million and we had $11.1 million posted as collateral to derivative counterparties. When the fair value of a derivative contract is positive (an asset on our balance sheet), this generally indicates that the counterparty owes us if the derivative was settled. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk with such counterparty is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative less any collateral held by us. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty, we would have a loss equal to the amount the derivative is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our derivatives which had a positive fair value in our favor (an asset on our balance sheet) was $118.3 million, of which $94.9 million related to the fair value of our cross-currency interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2010, our trustee held $182.8 million of collateral from the counterparty on the cross-currency interest rate swaps. We attempt to manage market and credit risks associated with our derivative instruments by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken, and by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by our risk committee. As of December 31, 2010, all of our derivative counterparties had investment grade credit ratings. We also have a policy that requires all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Master Agreement. Prepayment risk Higher rates of prepayments of student loans, including consolidation by the Department through the Federal Direct Loan Program, would reduce our net interest income. Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty. Prepayments may result from consolidation of student loans by the Department as part of the Federal Direct Loan Program, which historically tends to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments, from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment, and from voluntary full or partial prepayments, among other things. On February 14, 2011, the President introduced several proposals related to the fiscal year 2012 Federal budget, including a proposal to allow certain FFELP loan borrowers who also have Federal Direct Loan Program loans, for a one-time nine month period from January 1, 2012 through September 30, 2012, to convert their existing FFELP loans into Federal Direct Loan Program loans to be held by the Department, and as an incentive to convert, to provide such borrowers a credit of up to two percent on their loan balance. The proposal suggests it would simplify loan servicing and that the government would recognize a savings via elimination of lender subsidies on the FFELP loans. The proposal did not contain specific details as to implementation or timing, and the proposal is subject to review by Cong ress and possible changes. We cannot currently predict whether this or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted. 16 The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, political, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates, federal budgetary pressures, and the availability of alternative financing. Our profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which reduce the balance of loans outstanding and therefore the amount of net interest income we receive. Credit risk Future losses due to defaults on loans held by us, or loans sold to unaffiliated third parties which we are obligated to repurchase in the event of certain delinquencies, present credit risk which could adversely affect our earnings. Over 99% of our student loan portfolio is federally guaranteed. The allowance for loan losses from the federally insured loan portfolio is based on periodic evaluations of our loan portfolios considering loans in repayment versus those in nonpaying status, delinquency status, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, trends in student loan claims rejected for payment by guarantors, changes to federal student loan programs, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. The federal government currently guarantees 97% of the principal and interest on federally insured student loans disbursed on and after July 1, 2006 (and 98% for those loans disbursed prior to July 1, 2006), which limits our loss exposure on the outstanding balance of our federally insured portfolio. Student loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993 are fully insured for both principal and interest. Our non-federally insured loans are unsecured, with neither a government nor a private insurance guarantee. Accordingly, we bear the full risk of loss on these loans if the borrower and co-borrower, if applicable, default. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses on the non-federally insured loans, we consider several factors, including: loans in repayment versus those in a nonpaying status, delinquency status, type of program, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. We place a non-federally insured loan on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal and interest is 30 days past due and charge off the loan when the collection of principal and intere st is 120 days past due. The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. As of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was $43.6 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $22.7 million. The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that management believes is adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes, and other unforeseen future trends. If actual performance is worse than estimated, i t would materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in our statement of operations. We have participated interests in non-federally insured loans to unaffiliated third parties. Loans participated under these agreements have been accounted for as loan sales. Accordingly, the participation interests sold are not included on our consolidated balance sheet. Under the terms of the servicing agreements, our servicing operations are obligated to repurchase loans subject to the participation interests when such loans become 60 or 90 days delinquent. As of December 31, 2010, we had a reserve related to this obligation of $12.6 million included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. The evaluation of the reserve related to these participated loans is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that may be subject to changes. 0;If actual performance is worse than estimated, it would negatively affect our results of operations. Liquidity and Funding We face liquidity and funding risk to meet our financial obligations. We have two primary liquidity and funding needs: · Satisfy unsecured debt obligations, specifically our unsecured line of credit · Satisfy debt obligations secured by student loan assets and related collateral Satisfy unsecured debt obligations, specifically our unsecured line of credit We have a $750.0 million unsecured line of credit that terminates in May 2012. As of December 31, 2010, $450.0 million was outstanding under this facility. Upon termination in 2012, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this line of credit, find alternative funding, or increase the amount outstanding under the line, if necessary. The line of credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that, if not met, lead to an event of default under the agreement. The covenants include maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth, minimum adjusted EBITDA to corporate debt interest (over the last four rolling quarters), limitation on subsidiary indebtedness, and limitation on the percentage of non-guaranteed loans in our portfolio. 17 Satisfy debt obligations secured by student loan assets and related collateral The majority of our portfolio of student loans is funded with asset-backed securitizations that are structured to substantially match the maturity of the funded assets and there are minimal liquidity issues related to these facilities. We also have student loans funded in a FFELP warehouse facility and a Department conduit program. The current maturities of these facilities do not match the maturity of the related funded assets. Therefore, we will need to modify and/or find alternative funding related to the student loan collateral in these facilities prior to their expiration. We maintain a FFELP warehouse facility that has a maximum financing amount of $500.0 million, with a revolving financing structure supported by 364-day liquidity provisions, which expire on July 29, 2011. The final maturity date of the facility is July 29, 2013. In the event that we are unable to renew the liquidity provisions by July 29, 2011, the facility would become a term facility at a stepped-up cost, with no additional student loans being eligible for financing, and we would be required to refinance the existing loans in the facility by July 29, 2013. The FFELP facility provides for formula based advance rates depending on FFELP loan type, up to a maximum of 85 percent to 98 percent of the principal and interest of loans financed. The advance rates for collateral may increase or decrease based on market conditions, but they are subject to a minimum advance of 75 to 80 percent based on loan type. The facility contains financial covenants relating to levels of our consolidated net worth, ratio of adjusted EBITDA to corporate debt interest, and unencumbered cash. Any violation of these covenants could result in a requirement for the immediate repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the facility. As of December 31, 2010, $108.4 million was outstanding under this facility and $391.6 million was available for future use. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.3 million advanced as equity support in the facility. In May 2009, the Department implemented a program under which it finances eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans in a conduit vehicle established to provide funding for student lenders (the “Conduit Program”). Loans eligible for the Conduit Program had to be first disbursed on or after October 1, 2003, but not later than June 30, 2009, and fully disbursed before September 30, 2009, and meet certain other requirements. Funding for the Conduit Program is provided by the capital markets at a cost based on market rates, in which we were advanced 97 percent of the student loan face amount. Excess amounts needed to fund the remaining 3 percent of the student loan balances were contributed by us. The Conduit Program expires on May 8, 2014. The Student Loan S hort-Term Notes (“Student Loan Notes”) issued by the Conduit Program are supported by a combination of (i) notes backed by FFELP loans, (ii) a liquidity agreement with the Federal Financing Bank, and (iii) a put agreement provided by the Department. If the conduit does not have sufficient funds to pay all Student Loan Notes, then those Student Loan Notes will be repaid with funds from the Federal Financing Bank. The Federal Financing Bank will hold the notes for a short period of time and, if at the end of that time, the Student Loan Notes still cannot be paid off, the underlying FFELP loans that serve as collateral to the Conduit Program will be sold to the Department through a put agreement at a price of 97 percent of the face amount of the loans. As of December 31, 2010, $2.7 billion was outstanding under this facility and we had $94.1 million of operating cash advanced in the facility. If we are unable to obtain cost-effective funding alternatives for the loans in the FFELP warehouse facility or the Conduit Program prior to the facilities’ maturities, our cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities. Operations Risks associated with our operations, as further discussed below, include those related to our information technology systems and security and privacy breaches, our ability to manage performance related to regulatory requirements, and the importance of maintaining scale by retaining existing customers and attracting new business opportunities. A failure of our information technology systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors, could damage client relationships and our reputation or result in a security or privacy breach. We must continually and cost-effectively maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure in order to successfully deliver products and services to our customers. The widespread adoption of new technologies and market demands could require substantial expenditures to enhance system infrastructure and existing products and services. If we fail to enhance and scale our system and operational infrastructure or products and services, our operating segments may lose their competitive advantage and this could adversely affect financial and operating results. Additionally, we face the risk of business disruption if failures in our information systems occur as a result of changes in infrastructure, relocation of infrastructure, or failure to perform required services, which could have a material impact upon our business and operations. Although we regularly back up our data and maintain detailed disaster recovery plans, a major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to or the loss of our information systems for a sustained period of time could adversely affect our business and cash flows if we are unable to process transactions and/or provide services to customers. 18 We rely on outside vendors to provide some of the key components of business operations. Several of these key vendors are provided access to our customer data to complete the operations required by their contracts, such as banking services, datacenters, electronic and paper correspondence, credit reporting, skip tracing, and secure storage of proprietary and customer information. Our vendors must comply with our defined servicing levels, security policies, and applicable industry regulations. However, disruptions in vendor services, changes in servicing contracts, security, or non-compliance with industry regulations could hinder our ability to meet customer obligations, service levels, or lead to financial or reputation damage. Financial or operational difficulties of an o utside vendor could also hurt operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s services or cause reputation damage to our business segments. The secure confidentiality of customer information contained in our systems is critical to our business. A compromise of security surrounding our student loan portfolio and cash management processes or mismanagement of customer assets could lead to litigation, fraud, reputation damage, and unanticipated operating costs that could affect our overall business. Although we believe that the applications we use are proven and designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that these applications will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to interrupt service or breach systems in order to gain access to confidential client information or intellectual property or assurance that these applications will be suf ficient to address the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. We must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of our federally insured loans, and we may incur penalties or lose our guarantees if we fail to meet these requirements. We must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guaranty on our federally insured loans. The federal guaranty on our federally insured loans is conditional based on our compliance with origination, servicing, and collection policies set by the Department and guaranty agencies. Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department’s and guaranty agency regulations may risk partial or complete loss of the guaranty. If we experience a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another, errors in the loan origination process, establishment of the borrower’s repayment status, and due diligence or claim filing processes ), it could result in the loan guarantee being revoked or denied. In most cases we have the opportunity to cure these deficiencies by following a prescribed cure process which usually involves obtaining the borrower’s reaffirmation of the debt. The lender becomes ineligible for special allowance interest benefits from the time of the first error leading to the loan rejection through the date that the loan is cured. We are allowed three years from the date of the loan rejection to cure most loan rejections. If a cure cannot be achieved during this three year period, insurance is permanently revoked, although we maintain our right to collect the loan proceeds from the borrower. A guaranty agency may also assess an interest penalty upon claim payment if the error(s) does not result in a loan rejection. These interest penalties are not subject to cure provisions, and are typically related to isolated instances of due diligence deficiencies. Failure to comply with Federal and guarantor regulations may result in loss of insurance or assessment of interest penalties at the time of claim reimbursement by us. A future increase in either the loans claim rejections and/or interest penalties could become material to our fiscal operations. As of December 31, 2010, the Company serviced $29.4 billion of FFELP loans that maintained a federal guarantee, of which $23.7 billion and $5.7 billion were owned by the Company and third party entities, respectively. As we expand our service offerings to include software hosting services to third party servicing customers, we may incur penalties if certain performance standards are not met. We have entered into subcontracts to provide software hosting services to third party servicing customers that service loans under the Federal Direct Loan and FFEL Programs. These contracts include certain performance standards that we must meet. If these performance requirements are not met, we will incur penalties and loss of future revenue. If our loan servicing contract with the Department of Education expiring in 2014 is not renewed, our loan servicing revenues will be significantly reduced and we will need to restructure our loan servicing operations. In June 2009, the Department named us as one of four private sector companies awarded a servicing contract to service all federally-owned student loans. Our servicing contract with the Department spans five years and the Department can renew the contract for one, five-year period. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $29.9 million of revenue on this contract. We expect total loans serviced and revenue from this contract to grow each year of the contract. Upon the expiration of this contract, any renewal to provide loan servicing to the Department could be subject to a bidding process in which we may not be successful. Not obtaining a renewal of a loan servicing contract upon its expiration would result in a significant reduction in revenue and w e would have to make significant changes to our operations which may result in the recording of special charges, such as workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidating excess facilities, and impairments of assets. 19 Regulatory and Legal Federal and state regulations can restrict our business and noncompliance with these regulations could result in penalties, litigation, and reputation damage. Our operating segments and commercial customers are heavily regulated by federal and state governments and regulatory agencies. This regulation and legislation is proposed or enacted to protect consumers and the financial industry as a whole, not necessarily the Company, our operating segments, or our stockholders. Consequently, this regulation and legislation can significantly alter the regulatory environment, limit business operations, increase costs of doing business, and could lead to fines or penalties if we were found to be out of compliance. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes the new federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “BCFP”), an independent agency within the Federal Reserve to regulate consumer financial products, including education loans, and services offered primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, and will require the BCFP and other federal agencies, including the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”), to undertake various assessments and rulemakings. The majority of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institut ions. However, there are components of the legislation that will have an impact on us, including new requirements for derivatives and securitizations as discussed below, corporate governance and executive compensation provisions for public companies, and provisions which may impact us as we work with financial institutions and credit rating agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act provides the CFTC and the SEC with substantial new authority to regulate over-the-counter derivatives transactions, and includes provisions that require derivatives transactions to be executed through an exchange or centrally cleared, unless an exemption applies based on regulations to be developed by the CFTC and the SEC. The CFTC and the SEC have initiated rulemaking processes with respect to derivatives. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these rulemakings, new regulations in this area may result in increased costs and cash collateral margin requirements for the types of derivatives we use to hedge or otherwise manage our financial risks related to volatility in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. There are also provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that will affect future student loan portfolio securitization financing transactions through the issuance of asset-backed securities. The SEC and federal banking agencies are directed to adopt regulations requiring issuers of asset backed securities or persons who organize and initiate asset-backed securities transactions to retain a portion of the underlying assets’ credit risk, new disclosure and reporting requirements for each tranche of asset-backed securities, including new loan-level data requirements, and new disclosure requirements relating to the representations, warranties, and enforcement mechanisms available to investors in asset-backed securities. The SEC has issued proposed new rules governing asset-backed securities. Although we cannot predict the u ltimate outcome of this rulemaking, the Dodd-Frank Act provisions and new regulations in this area are expected to affect the terms of future student loan securitization transactions that we facilitate and result in greater risk retention and less flexibility for structuring such transactions. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact our business and operations. As rules and regulations are promulgated by the federal agencies responsible for implementing and enforcing the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act, we will need to apply adequate resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions. Compliance with these new laws and regulations may result in additional costs and may otherwise adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Additionally, certain provisions in recently promulgated regulations under the Higher Education Act could have an impact on our Enrollment Services operating segment, as a result of its services provided to for-profit schools. The United States Higher Education Act provides that to be eligible to participate in Federal student financial aid programs, an educational institution, including for-profit schools, must enter into a program participation agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Education. The agreement includes a number of conditions with which an institution must comply to be granted initial and continuing eligibility to participate. Among those conditions is a prohibition on institutions providing any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments to any individual or entity engaged in recruiting or admission activities. Previous regulations promulgated under the Higher Education Act specified a number of types of compensation, or “safe harbors,” that did not constitute incentive compensation in violation of this agreement. One of those safe harbors permitted an institution to award incentive compensation for Internet-based recruitment and admission activities. The Department of Education’s newly issued regulations repeal all existing safe harbors regarding incentive compensation in recruiting, though exempting click-based payments to third parties for the provision of internet generated student contact information. Additionally, the regulations include misrepresentation standards for advertisements, offers, and communications presented to prospective students, with associated penalties for noncompliance with these standards. The regulations are effective July 1, 2011. Approximately 95% of our interactive marketing revenue included in our Enrollment Services operating segment is generated from for-profit schools. These regulations may subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to serve for-profit schools. In addition, these regulations could negatively impact enrollment at for-profit schools, which could adversely affect our interactive marketing revenue. 20 Additionally, the Department has proposed certain regulations referred to as the Gainful Employment regulations, which would exclude career education programs from receiving federal student financial aid if they do not meet certain debt-to-income and student loan repayment measures. The Gainful Employment regulations are not final, and as proposed will not directly regulate the activities performed by the Company. However, if the Gainful Employment regulations become final, the regulations could negatively impact enrollment at for-profit schools, which could adversely affect interactive marketing revenue. Effective July 1, 2010, the Reconciliation Act of 2010 prohibits new loan originations under the FFEL Program and requires that all new federal loan originations be made through the Federal Direct Loan Program. As a result of this legislation, net interest income on our existing FFELP loan portfolio, as well as fee-based revenue from guarantee and third party FFELP servicing and education loan software licensing and consulting fees will decline over time as our and our customers’ FFELP loan portfolios are paid down. On March 30, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Reconciliation Act of 2010. Effective July 1, 2010, this law prohibits new loan originations under the FFEL Program and requires that all new federal loan originations be made through the Federal Direct Loan Program. The new law does not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP loans. As a result of the Reconciliation Act of 2010, we no longer originate new FFELP loans. As such, subsequent to 2010, we will no longer recognize a gain from originating and subsequently selling FFELP loans to the Department under the Department’s Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the “Purchase Program”). During 2010 and 2009, we recognized pre-tax gains of $33.8 million and $36.6 million, respectively, from selling $2.1 billion of FFELP loans to the Department during each of these years under the Purchase Program. In addition, as a result of the Reconciliation Act of 2010, net interest income on our existing FFELP loan portfolio, as well as fee-based revenue from guarantee and third party FFELP servicing and education loan software licensing and consulting fees related to the FFEL Program, will decline over time as our and our customers’ FFELP loan portfolios are paid down. During the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recognized approximately $377 million and approximately $247 million, respectively, of net interest income on our FFELP loan portfolio, approximately $101 million and approximately $100 million, respectively, in guarantee and third party FFELP servicing revenue, and approximately $8 million and approximately $7 million, respectively, in education loan software licensing and consulting fe es related to the FFEL Program. Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease our net income. We are subject to federal and state income tax laws and regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. The nexus standards and the sourcing of receipts from intangible personal property and services have been the subject of state audits and litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. As the U.S. Congress and U.S. Supreme Court have not provided clear guidance in this regard, conflicting state laws and court decisions create tremendous uncertainty and expense for taxpayers conducting interstate commerce. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact our results of operations. If states enact legislation, alter apportionment methodologies, or aggressively apply the income tax nexus standards, we may become subject to addit ional state taxes. From time to time, we engage in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. Examples of such transactions include asset and business acquisitions and dispositions, litigation settlements, financing transactions, apportionment, nexus standards, and income recognition. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax consequences of these transactions. We prepare and file tax returns based on the interpretation of tax laws and regulations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance, we establish reserves for tax contingencies related to deductions and credits that we may be unable to sustain. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts ultimately owed are recorded in the period they become known. Adjustments to our reserves could have a material effect on our financial statements. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations, or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of lawsuits, investigations, or similar matters arising out of our business operations. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. If the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for any particular period. 21 Principal Shareholder and Related Party Transactions. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns 66.3% of the voting rights of our shareholders and has day to day control over all matters at our Company. Michael S. Dunlap, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, beneficially owns 66.3% of the voting rights of our shareholders. In addition, Mr. Dunlap, Stephen F. Butterfield, our Vice Chairman, and Angela L. Muhleisen, Mr. Dunlap’s sister, beneficially own stock that in the aggregate has 81.0% of the voting rights of our shareholders. Accordingly, each member of the Board of Directors and each member of management has been elected or effectively appointed by Mr. Dunlap and can be removed by Mr. Dunlap. As a result, Mr. Dunlap, as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and controlling shareholder, has day to day control over all matters at our Company and has the ability to take actions that benefit him and Ms. Muhleisen but may not benefit other minority s hareholders, and may otherwise exercise his control in a manner with which other minority shareholders may not agree or which they may not consider to be in their best interests. We have entered into contractual arrangements with Union Bank & Trust Company (“Union Bank”). Union Bank is controlled by Farmers & Merchants Investment Inc. (“F&M”) which owns 81.4% of Union Bank’s common stock and 15.4% of Union Bank’s non-voting preferred stock. Michael S. Dunlap, a significant shareholder of us as well as our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, and a member of our Board of Directors, owns or controls 40.2% of the stock of F&M, while Mr. Dunlap’s sister, Angela L. Muhleisen, owns or controls 38.6% of F&M stock. The transactions with Union Bank present conflicts of interest and pose risks to our shareholders that the terms may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated th ird parties. Union Bank is controlled by F&M which owns 81.4% of Union Bank’s common stock and 15.4% of Union Bank’s non-voting preferred stock. Michael S. Dunlap, a significant shareholder of us as well as our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, and a member of our Board of Directors, owns or controls 40.2% of the stock of F&M, while Mr. Dunlap’s sister, Angela L. Muhleisen, owns or controls 38.6% of F&M stock. Mr. Dunlap serves as a Director and Co-President of F&M. Ms. Muhleisen serves as Director and Co-President of F&M and as a Director, Chairperson, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank. Union Bank is deemed to have beneficial ownership of various shares of Nelnet because it serves in a capacity of trustee and has sole voting and/or investm ent power. As of December 31, 2010, Union Bank was deemed to beneficially own 11.8% of the voting rights of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, Mr. Dunlap and Ms. Muhleisen beneficially owned 66.3% and 13.9%, respectively, of the voting rights of our outstanding common stock. We have entered into certain contractual arrangements with Union Bank. These transactions include: · Loan sales - During 2008 and 2009, we sold $535.4 million (par value) and $76.4 million (par value), respectively, of FFELP student loans (the “FFELP Loans”) to Union Bank. We recognized a loss of $3.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively, on these loan sales which represented unamortized loan costs on these portfolios. These loans were sold pursuant to an affiliate transaction exemption granted by the Federal Reserve Board which allowed Union Bank to purchase FFELP loans from us. In connection with the exemption and the loan purchase by Union Bank, an Assurance Commitment Agreement (the “Commitment Agreement”) was also entered into, by and among, us, Union Bank, and Mr. Dunlap. Per the terms of the Commitment Agreement, we provided certain assurances to Union Bank designed to mitigate potential losses related to the FFELP Loans, including holding amounts in escrow equal to the unguaranteed portion and reimbursing Union Bank for losses, if any, related to the portfolio. As part of this agreement, we were also obligated to buy back loans once they were 30 days delinquent. In 2010 and 2009, we bought back from Union Bank $11.7 million (par value) and $36.9 million (par value), respectively, in loans and incurred expenses of $128,000 and $374,000, respectively, related to this obligation. In March 2010, we purchased $524.2 million (par value) of federally insured student loans from Union Bank, which represented all outstanding FFELP loans remaining under the provisions of the Commitment Agreement. As a result of this loan purchase, we no longer have a commitment to hold amounts in escrow, reimburse Union Bank for losses, and buy back delinquent loans related to this portfolio. · Loan purchases – During 2010, we purchased $989.2 million (par value) of FFELP student loans from Union Bank, which includes $535.9 million of loans purchased under the Commitment Agreement as discussed previously. No premiums were paid for these loan purchases. · Loan servicing – As of December 31, 2010, we serviced $530.0 million of loans for Union Bank. Servicing revenue earned by us from this portfolio was $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. 22 · Funding – We maintain an agreement with Union Bank, as trustee for various grantor trusts, under which Union Bank has agreed to purchase from us participation interests in student loans (the “FFELP Participation Agreement”). We use this facility as a source to fund FFELP student loans. We have the option to purchase the participation interests from the grantor trusts at the end of a 364-day period upon termination of the participation certificate. As of December 31, 2010, $350.4 million of loans were subject to outstanding participation interests held by Union Bank, as trustee, under this agreement. The agreement automatically renews annually and is terminable by either party upon five business days notice. This agreement provides beneficiaries of Union Bank’s grantor trusts with access to investments in interests in student loans, while providi ng liquidity to us on a short term basis. We can participate loans to Union Bank to the extent of availability under the grantor trusts, up to $750 million or an amount in excess of $750 million if mutually agreed to by both parties. Loans participated under this agreement have been accounted for by us as loan sales. Accordingly, the participation interests sold are not included on our consolidated balance sheet. We have from time to time repurchased certain of our own asset-backed securities (bonds and notes payable). For accounting purposes, these notes have been effectively retired and are not included on our consolidated balance sheet. However, these securities are legally outstanding at the trust level and we could sell these notes to third parties or redeem the notes at par as cash is generated by the trust estate. During 2010, we participated $218.7 million of these securities to Union Bank, as trustee for various grantor trusts, and obtained cash proceeds equal to the par value of the notes. We entered into a Guaranteed Purchase Agreement with Union Bank whereby we must purchase these notes back from Union Bank at par upon the request of Union Bank. As of December 31, 2010, $107.1 million of these securities were out standing and subject to the participation agreement and are included in “bonds and notes payable” on our consolidated balance sheet. · Operating cash – The majority of our cash operating bank accounts are maintained at Union Bank. We also invest cash in the Short term Federal Investment Trust (“STFIT”) of the Student Loan Trust Division of Union Bank, which we use as operating cash accounts. As of December 31, 2010, we had $326.9 million deposited at Union Bank in operating accounts or invested in the STFIT. Interest income earned from cash deposited in these operating cash accounts for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $1.1 million. · 529 Plan administration – We provide certain 529 Plan administration services to certain college savings plans (the "College Savings Plans") through a contract with Union Bank, as the program manager. Union Bank is entitled to a fee as program manager pursuant to its program management agreement with the College Savings Plans. In 2010, we received fees of $5.7 million from Union Bank related to our administration services provided to the College Savings Plans. · Lease arrangement – Union Bank leases space in our corporate headquarters building. During 2010, Union Bank paid us approximately $71,000 for rent. · Other fees paid to Union Bank – During 2010, we paid Union Bank approximately $655,000 for administrative and record keeping services, commissions, and cash management fees. · Other fees received from Union Bank – During 2010, we received approximately $165,000 from Union Bank related to an employee sharing arrangement and for providing health and productivity services. · Investment Services – In December 2010, Union Bank established various trusts whereby Union Bank serves as trustee for the purpose of purchasing, holding, and selling investments in student loan asset backed securities. We and Union Bank have both invested money into the trusts. As of December 31, 2010 and February 28, 2011, we had $4.9 million and $22.9 million, respectively, and Union Bank had $28.6 million and $128.8 million, respectively, invested in the trusts. We and Union Bank employ certain individuals as dual employees and such employees provide consulting and advisory services to Union Bank as trustee for these trusts, and Union Bank has agreed to pay us for the share of such employees’ salary and payroll based on the value of such services rendered as well as the loss of value of such dual emp loyees’ services to us. · Defined contribution plan – Union Bank administers our 401(k) defined contribution plan. Fees paid to Union Bank to administer the plan, approximately $239,000 in 2010, are paid by the plan’s participants. · Letter of credit – Union Bank has issued a $125,000 letter of credit for our benefit. Union Bank charged no fee for providing this service. 23 The net aggregate impact on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 related to the transactions with Union Bank as described above was income of approximately $8.2 million, $6.9 million, and $4.9 million, respectively. See note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for additional information related to the transactions between us and Union Bank. Transactions between Union Bank and us are generally based on available market information for comparable assets, products, and services and are extensively negotiated. In addition, all related party transactions between Union Bank and us are approved by both the Union Bank Board of Directors and our Board of Directors. Furthermore, Union Bank is subject to regulatory oversight and review by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance. The FDIC and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance regularly review Union Bank’s transactions with affiliates. The regulatory standard applied to the bank falls under Regulation W, which places restrictions on certain “covered” transactions with affiliates. div> We intend to maintain our relationship with Union Bank, which our management believes provides certain benefits to us. Those benefits include Union Bank’s knowledge of and experience in the FFELP industry, its willingness to provide services, and at times liquidity and capital resources on an expedient basis, and the proximity of Union Bank to our corporate headquarters located in Lincoln, Nebraska. The majority of the transactions and arrangements with Union Bank are not offered to unrelated third parties or subject to competitive bids. Accordingly, these transactions and arrangements not only present conflicts of interest, but also pose the risk to our shareholders that the terms of such transactions and arrangements may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated third parties. Moreover, we may have and/or may enter into contracts and business transactions with related parties that benefit Mr. Dunlap and his sister, as well as other related parties, that may not benefit us and/or our minority shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 