ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Asset Generation and Management and Student Loan and Guaranty Servicing Operating Segments The following risk factors relate to the Company’s operating segments most impacted by the provisions of the FFEL Program which include: • Asset Generation and Management; and • Student Loan and Guaranty Servicing. Additional risk factors affecting these segments are set forth under the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” caption below. Changes in legislation and regulations could have a negative impact upon the Company’s business and may affect its profitability. Funds for payment of interest subsidy payments, special allowance payments, and other payments under the FFEL Program are subject to annual budgetary appropriations by Congress. Federal budget legislation has in the past contained provisions that restricted payments made under the FFEL Program to achieve reductions in federal spending. Future federal budget legislation may adversely affect expenditures by the Department, and the financial condition of the guaranty agencies. Furthermore, Congressional amendments to the Higher Education Act or other relevant federal laws, and rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Education, may adversely impact holders of FFELP loans. For example, changes might be made to the rate of interest or special allowance payments paid on FFELP loans, to the level of insurance provided by guaranty agencies, or to the servicing requirements for FFELP loans. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its results of operations. On September 27, 2007, the President signed into law the College Cost Reduction Act that contained provisions with significant implications for participants in the FFEL Program. In addition to the College Cost Reduction Act, other bills have been introduced in Congress which contain provisions which could significantly impact participants in the FFEL Program. Among other things, the proposals include: • requiring disclosures relating to placement on “preferred lender lists”; • banning various arrangements between lenders and schools; • banning lenders from offering certain gifts to school employees; • eliminating the school-as-lender program; • encouraging borrowers to maximize their borrowing through government loan programs, rather than private loan programs with higher interest rates; • encouraging schools to participate in the Federal Direct Loan Program through increased federal grant funds; and • increasing the lender origination fee for consolidation loans. 16 Table of Contents As of the date of this Report, none of these other bills have been enacted into law. The impact of the proposed legislation is difficult to predict; however, increased fees for FFEL Program lenders and decreased loan volume as a result of increased participation in the Federal Direct Loan Program could have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues. The Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2005 (“HERA”) was enacted into law on February 8, 2006, and effectively reauthorized the Title IV provisions of the FFEL Program through 2012. HERA did not reauthorize the entire Higher Education Act, which is set to expire on March 31, 2008 (as a result of the Third Higher Education Extension Act of 2007). Therefore, further action will be required by Congress to reauthorize the remaining titles of the Higher Education Act. Reauthorization could result in the Company’s revenues being negatively impacted. The Company cannot predict the outcome of this or any other legislation impacting the FFEL Program and recognizes that a level of political and legislative risk always exists within the industry. This could include changes in legislation further impacting lender margins, fees paid to the Department, new policies affecting the competition between the Federal Direct Loan and FFEL Programs, additional lender risk sharing, or the elimination of the FFEL Program in its entirety. In addition to changes to the FFEL Program and the Higher Education Act, various state laws targeted at student lending companies have been proposed or are in the process of being enacted. Many of these laws propose or require changes to lending and business practices of student lenders. These laws could have a negative impact on the Company’s operations by requiring changes to the Company’s business practices and operations. The Company may be subject to penalties and sanctions if it fails to comply with governmental regulations or guaranty agency rules. The Company’s principal business is comprised of originating, acquiring, holding, and servicing student loans made and guaranteed pursuant to the FFEL Program, which was created by the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act governs many aspects of the Company’s operations. The Company is also subject to rules of the agencies that act as guarantors of the student loans, known as guaranty agencies. In addition, the Company is subject to certain federal and state banking laws, regulations, and examinations, as well as federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including, without limitation, laws and regulations governing borrower privacy protection, information security, restrictions on access to student information, and specifically with respect to the Company’s non-federally insured loan portfolio, certain state usury laws and related regulations and the Federal Truth in Lending Act. All or most of these laws and regulations impose substantial requirements upon lenders and servicers involved in consumer finance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in liability to the Company, the imposition of civil penalties, and potential class action suits. The Company’s failure to comply with regulatory regimes described above may arise from: • breaches of the Company’s internal control systems, such as a failure to adjust manual or automated servicing functions following a change in regulatory requirements; • privacy issues; • technological defects, such as a malfunction in or destruction of the Company’s computer systems; or • fraud by the Company’s employees or other persons in activities such as borrower payment processing. Such failure to comply, irrespective of the reason, could subject the Company to loss of the federal guaranty on federally insured loans, costs of curing servicing deficiencies or remedial servicing, suspension or termination of the Company’s right to participate in the FFEL Program or to participate as a servicer, negative publicity, and potential legal claims or actions brought by the Company’s servicing customers and borrowers. The Company has the ability to cure servicing deficiencies and the Company’s historical losses in this area have been minimal. However, the Company’s loan servicing and guaranty servicing activities are highly dependent on its information systems, and while the Company has well-developed and tested business recovery systems, the Company faces the risk of business disruption should there be extended failures of its systems. The Company also manages operational risk through its risk management and internal control processes covering its product and service offerings. These internal control processes are documented and tested regularly. Competition created by the Federal Direct Loan Program and from other lenders and servicers and the impact of recent legislation may adversely impact the volume of future originations and the Company’s servicing business. 17 Table of Contents The Company’s student loan originations generally are limited to students attending eligible educational institutions in the United States. Volume of originations are greater at some schools than others, and the Company’s ability to remain an active lender at a particular school with concentrated volumes is subject to a variety of risks, including the fact that each school has the option to remove the Company from its “preferred lender” list or to add other lenders to its “preferred lender” list, and the risk that a school may enter the Federal Direct Loan Program. Additionally, new regulations adopted by the Department relating to “preferred lender lists” may have the effect of reducing the Company’s loan volume. Under the Federal Direct Loan Program, the Department makes loans directly to student borrowers through the educational institutions they attend. The volume of student loans made under the FFEL Program and available for the Company to originate or acquire may be reduced to the extent loans are made to students under the Federal Direct Loan Program. In addition, if the Federal Direct Loan Program expands, to the extent the volume of loans serviced by the Company is reduced, the Company may experience reduced economies of scale, which could adversely affect earnings. Loan volume reductions could further reduce amounts received by the guaranty agencies available to pay claims on defaulted student loans. In the FFEL Program market, the Company faces significant competition from SLM Corporation, the parent company of Sallie Mae and other existing lenders and servicers. As the Company seeks to further expand its business, the Company will face numerous other competitors, many of which will be well established in the markets the Company seeks to penetrate. Some of the Company’s competitors are much larger than the Company, have better brand recognition, and have greater financial and other resources. In addition, several competitors have large market capitalizations or cash reserves and are better positioned to acquire companies or portfolios in order to gain market share. Consequently, such competitors may have more flexibility to address the risks inherent in the student loan business. Finally, some of the Company’s competitors are tax-exempt organizations that do not pay federal or state income taxes and which usually have the ability to issue tax-exempt securities, which typically carry a lower cost of funds than the Company’s securities. These factors could give the Company’s competitors a strategic advantage. In 2005, the Company entered into an agreement to amend an existing contract with College Assist. Under the agreement, the Company provides student loan servicing and guaranty operations. College Assist pays the Company a portion of the gross servicing and guaranty fees as consideration for the Company providing these services on behalf of College Assist. The Company is a partner in a loan servicing consortium with College Assist in which lenders agree to use the Company as a FFELP student loan servicer and College Assist as the Guarantor for all loans made to Colorado schools. One of the Company’s customers has recently decided to stop participating in the consortium. Other lenders have indicated a willingness to continue participation, but only for time commitments of a month to month or 12 month duration. In the past, these commitments were made for five year terms. Reductions in participation of consortium lenders would have an adverse impact to the Company’s operating results as this would impact the Company’s loan servicing revenue and its guaranty servicing revenue (as the Company receives a portion of the gross guaranty fees from College Assist for providing such services). Due to the impact of the recent legislative changes and capital market disruptions, FFELP lenders are re-evaluating the markets in which they will originate loans. Some are looking at the cohort default rates of the schools with which they do business. Several lenders have decided not to purchase loans that have been rehabilitated out of default as established by federal regulation (“Rehabilitated Loans”). Rehabilitated Loans collections comprise approximately 20 percent of the Company’s guaranty servicing revenue. The Company’s guaranty servicing revenue could be negatively impacted as a result of the decrease in the number of lenders using this service. A decrease in third-party servicing volume could have a negative effect on the Company’s earnings. To the extent that third-party servicing clients reduce the volume of student loans that the Company processes on their behalf, the Company’s income would be reduced, and, to the extent the related costs could not be reduced correspondingly, net income could be adversely affected. Such volume reductions occur for a variety of reasons, including if third-party servicing clients commence or increase internal servicing activities, shift volume to another service provider, perhaps because of competition or service levels, or exit the FFEL Program completely, for instance as a result of reduced interest rate margins. The Company’s inability or choice not to maintain its relationships with significant branding and forward flow partners and/or customers could have an adverse impact on its business. The Company’s inability or choice not to maintain strong relationships with significant schools, branding and forward flow partners, servicing customers, and guaranty agencies could result in loss of: • loan origination volume with borrowers attending certain schools; • loan origination volume generated by some of the Company’s branding and forward flow partners; and • loan and guaranty servicing volume generated by some of the Company’s loan servicing and guaranty agency customers. 18 Table of Contents The Company acquires student loans through forward flow commitments and branding partner arrangements with other student loan lenders, but each of these commitments has a finite term. The passage of the College Cost Reduction Act has resulted in a reduction in the yields on student loans and, accordingly, a reduction in the amount of the premium the Company will be able to pay lenders under its forward flow commitments and branding partner arrangements. As a result, the Company has been working with its forward flow and branding partner clients to renegotiate the premiums payable under its agreements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in renegotiating the premiums under these agreements and, accordingly, the Company may be required to terminate commitments which are not economically reasonable. In addition, the current capital market disruption may render origination or acquisition of student loans through these channels uneconomical. As a result, the Company may experience a decrease in its forward flow and branding partner loan volume. In addition, upon expiration of these agreements, there can be no assurance that these lenders will renew or extend their existing forward flow commitments or branding partner relationships on terms that are favorable to the Company, if at all, following their expiration. Loss of a strong branding or forward flow partner or relationships with schools from which a significant volume of student loans is directly or indirectly acquired, could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company could be sanctioned if it conducts activities which are considered prohibited inducements under the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act generally prohibits a lender from providing certain inducements to educational institutions or individuals in order to secure applicants for FFELP loans. The Company has structured its relationships and product offerings in a manner intended to comply with the Higher Education Act and the available communications and guidance from the Department. If the Department were to change its position on any of these matters, the Company may have to change the way it markets products and services and a new marketing strategy may not be as effective. If the Company fails to respond to the Department’s change in position, the Department could potentially impose sanctions upon the Company that could negatively impact the Company’s business. Legislation has been introduced in Congress modifying the prohibited inducement provisions of the Higher Education Act, and the Department of Education published new regulations on November 1, 2007 relating to prohibited inducements that go into effect on July 1, 2008. The Department has requested that companies begin complying with the new regulations immediately even though they are not yet in effect. As a result, the Company has modified, or intends to modify, its business practices to comply with the prohibited inducement provisions as ultimately enacted or adopted, including the termination of the Company’s affinity relationships and referral programs. Termination of these programs may result in decreased loan volume for the Company. In addition, changes to the Company’s business practices in order to comply with the new prohibited inducement provisions may negatively impact the Company’s business. Future losses due to defaults on loans held by the Company present credit risk which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. The majority of the Company’s student loan portfolio is comprised of federally insured loans. These loans currently benefit from a federal guaranty of their principal balance and accrued interest. The allowance for the federally insured loan portfolio is based on periodic evaluations of the Company’s loan portfolios considering past experience, trends in student loan claims rejected for payment by guarantors, changes to federal student loan programs, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. The federal government currently guarantees 97% of the principal of and the interest on federally insured student loans disbursed on and after July 1, 2006 (and 98% for those loans disbursed prior to July 1, 2006), which limits the Company’s loss exposure on the outstanding balance of the Company’s federally insured portfolio. Also, in accordance with the Student Loan Reform Act of 1993, student loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993 are fully insured. The Company’s non-federally insured loans are unsecured and are not guaranteed or reinsured under the FFEL Program or any other federal student loan program and are not insured by any private insurance program. Accordingly, the Company bears the full risk of loss on these loans if the borrower and co-borrower, if applicable, default. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses on the non-federally insured loans, the Company considers several factors including: loans in repayment versus those in a nonpaying status, months in repayment, delinquency status, type of program, and trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data. The Company places a non-federally insured loan on nonaccrual status and charges off the loan when the collection of principal and interest is 120 days past due. The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that the Company’s management believes is adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes in debt management operations effectiveness, and other unforeseen future trends. If actual performance is worse than estimated, this could materially affect the Company’s estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in the Company’s statement of operations. 19 Table of Contents The Company must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of its federally insured loans, and the Company may incur penalties or lose its guarantees if it fails to meet these requirements. The Company must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guaranty on its federally insured loans. These requirements establish servicing requirements and procedural guidelines and specify school and borrower eligibility criteria. The federal guaranty on the Company’s federally insured loans is conditioned on compliance with origination, servicing, and collection standards set by the Department and guaranty agencies. Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department’s regulations risk partial or complete loss of the guaranty thereof. If the Company experiences a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another) or costs associated with remedial servicing, and if the Company is unsuccessful in curing such deficiencies, the eventual losses on the loans that are not cured could be material. A guaranty agency may reject a loan for claim payment as a result of a violation of the FFEL Program due diligence servicing requirements. In addition, a guaranty agency may reject claims under other circumstances, including, for example, if a claim is not timely filed or adequate documentation is not maintained. Once a loan ceases to be guaranteed, it is ineligible for federal interest subsidies and special allowance payments. If a loan is rejected for claim payment by a guaranty agency, the Company continues to pursue the borrower for payment and/or institutes a process to reinstate the guaranty. Rejections of claims as to portions of interest may be made by guaranty agencies for certain violations of the due diligence collection and servicing requirements, even though the remainder of a claim may be paid. Examples of errors that cause claim rejections include isolated missed collection calls or failures to send collection letters as required. The Department has implemented school eligibility requirements, which include default rate limits. In order to maintain eligibility in the FFEL Program, schools must maintain default rates below these specified limits, and both guaranty agencies and lenders are required to ensure that loans are made only to or on behalf of students attending schools that do not exceed the default rate limits. If the Company fails to comply with any of the above requirements, it could incur penalties or lose the federal guaranty on some or all of its federally insured loans. If the Company’s actual loss on denied guarantees were to increase substantially in future periods the impact could be material to the Company’s operations. The Company could experience cash flow problems if a guaranty agency defaults on its guaranty obligation. A deterioration in the financial status of a guaranty agency and its ability to honor guaranty claims on defaulted student loans could result in a failure of that guaranty agency to make its guaranty payments in a timely manner, if at all. The financial condition of a guaranty agency can be adversely affected if it submits a large number of reimbursement claims to the Department, which results in a reduction of the amount of reimbursement that the Department is obligated to pay the guaranty agency. The Department may also require a guaranty agency to return its reserve funds to the Department upon a finding that the reserves are unnecessary for the guaranty agency to pay its FFEL Program expenses or to serve the best interests of the FFEL Program. If the Department has determined that a guaranty agency is unable to meet its guaranty obligations, the loan holder may submit claims directly to the Department, and the Department is required to pay the full guaranty claim. However, the Department’s obligation to pay guaranty claims directly in this fashion is contingent upon the Department making the determination that a guaranty agency is unable to meet its guaranty obligations. The Department may not ever make this determination with respect to a guaranty agency and, even if the Department does make this determination, payment of the guaranty claims may not be made in a timely manner, which could result in the Company experiencing cash shortfalls. Management periodically reviews the financial condition of its guarantors and does not believe the level of concentration creates an unusual or unanticipated credit risk. In addition, management believes that based on amendments to the Higher Education Act, the security for and payment of any of the education lending subsidiaries’ obligations would not be materially adversely affected as a result of legislative action or other failure to perform on its obligations on the part of any guaranty agency. The Company, however, cannot provide absolute assurances to that effect. Higher rates of prepayments of student loans could reduce the Company’s profits. Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty. Prepayments may result from consolidating student loans, which tends to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments, from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment, and from voluntary full or partial prepayments, among other things. High prepayment rates will have the most impact on the Company’s asset-backed securitization transactions, since these securities are priced according to their expected average lives. The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates and the availability of alternative financing. 20 Table of Contents The Company’s profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which would reduce the amount of interest the Company received and expose the Company to reinvestment risk. Consolidation loan activity by competitors present a risk to the Company’s loan portfolio and profitability. The Company’s portfolio of federally insured loans is subject to refinancing through the use of consolidation loans, which are expressly permitted by the Higher Education Act. In January 2008, the Company suspended consolidation student loan originations as a result of legislative actions and capital market disruptions which impacted the profitability of consolidation loans. As a result, the Company may lose student loans in its portfolio that are consolidated away by competing lenders. Increased consolidations of student loans by the Company’s competitors may result in a negative return on loans, when considering the origination costs or acquisition premiums paid with respect to these loans. Additionally, consolidation of loans away by competing lenders can result in a decrease of the Company’s servicing portfolio, thereby decreasing fee-based servicing income. The Company faces liquidity risks associated with financing student loan originations and acquisitions. The Company’s primary funding needs are those required to finance its student loan portfolio and satisfy its cash requirements for new student loan originations and acquisitions. The Company relies upon secured financing vehicles as its most significant source of funding for student loans. Current conditions in the debt markets have resulted in reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums for most market participants. These conditions can increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt in the capital markets. As a result, a prolonged period of market illiquidity may affect the Company’s loan acquisition and origination volumes and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future earnings and financial condition. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Elimination of the FFEL Program would have a significant negative effect on the Company’s earnings and operations. In connection with the 2008 presidential election, certain candidates have proposed the elimination of the FFEL Program. Elimination of the FFEL Program would significantly impact the Company’s operations and profitability by, among other things, reducing the Company’s interest revenues as a result of the inability to add new FFELP loans to the Company’s portfolio and reducing third-party servicing fees as a result of reduced FFELP loan servicing and origination volume from the Company’s third-party servicing customers. The Company cannot predict whether any such proposals will ultimately be enacted. Operating Segments – Fee Based Businesses The following risk factors relate to the Company’s operating segments not directly related to the FFEL Program. These operating segments include: • Tuition Payment Processing and Campus Commerce; • Enrollment Services and List Management; and • Software and Technical Services. If regulatory authorities prohibit student lenders from engaging in non-lending activities, the Company may no longer be allowed to offer certain products and services or may be required to exit the lending business, which could negatively impact the Company’s revenues. As a diversified education services company, the Company offers many products and services which are not related to the FFEL Program. Recently, various regulatory authorities have started to examine the relationships between student lending companies and their customers. In the event state and/or federal authorities adopt restrictions on the products and services which may be offered by student lending companies, the Company may have to cease offering certain products and services or may be limited to marketing those products and services to customers which do not participate in the FFEL Program. Any restrictions on the Company’s ability to market or sell products or services may have a negative impact on the Company’s revenues. Changes in legislation and regulations could have a negative impact upon the Company’s business and may affect its profitability. Changes to privacy and direct mail legislation could negatively impact the Company, in particular the Company’s list management and lead generation activities. Changes in such legislation could restrict the Company’s ability to collect information for its list management and lead generation activities and its ability to use the information it collects. The Company has a privacy policy that covers how certain subsidiaries collect, protect, and use personal information. Depending on the department, product, and/or other factors, certain entities may have more restrictive information handling practices. 21 Table of Contents The Company’s Software and Technical Services operating segment provides information technology products and services, with core areas of business in student loan software solutions for schools, lenders, and guarantors. Many of the Company’s customers receiving these services have been negatively impacted as a result of the passage of the College Cost Reduction Act in September 2007 and the recent disruption in the capital markets. This impact could decrease the demand for the Company’s products and services and affect the Company’s revenue and profit margins. The Company’s results are affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences. Demand for the Company’s products and services, which impact revenue and profit margins, is affected by (i) the development and timing of the introduction of competitive products and services; (ii) the Company’s response to pricing to stay competitive; and (iii) the change in customers’ preferences for the Company’s products and services, including the success of products and services offered by competitors. In addition, K-12 and post-secondary enrollment numbers impact the demand for the Company’s products and services. Education enrollment numbers are impacted by general population trends and the general state of the economy. Revenue in the Company’s fee-based businesses is recurring only to the extent that customer relationships are sustained. Reduction in volume or loss of a customer relationship could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company faces liquidity risks associated with financing student loan originations and acquisitions. The Company’s primary funding needs are those required to finance its student loan portfolio and satisfy its cash requirements for new student loan originations and acquisitions. In general, the amount, type, and cost of the Company’s funding, including securitization and unsecured financing from the capital markets and borrowings from financial institutions, have a direct impact on the Company’s operating expenses and financial results and can limit the Company’s ability to grow its student loan assets. The Company relies upon secured financing vehicles as its most significant source of funding for student loans. The Company’s primary secured financing vehicles are loan warehouse facilities and asset-backed securitizations. As discussed in more detail below with respect to the Company’s loan warehouse facilities and asset-backed securitizations, the recent unprecedented disruptions in the credit markets have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the cost and availability of financing for the Company’s student loan portfolios, and as a result have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Such credit market conditions may continue or worsen in the future. Student loan warehousing allows the Company to buy and manage student loans prior to transferring them into more permanent financing arrangements. A portion of the Company’s operating and warehouse financings are provided by third parties, over which it has no control. Current conditions in the debt markets have resulted in reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums for most market participants. These conditions can increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt in the capital markets. If warehouse financing sources are unavailable, the Company may be unable to meet its financial commitments to schools, branding partners, or forward flow lenders when due unless the Company is able to find alternative funding mechanisms. The Company attempts to mitigate the impact of debt market disruptions by obtaining adequate committed and uncommitted facilities from a variety of reliable sources. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be successful in these efforts, that such facilities will be adequate, or that the cost of debt will allow the Company to operate at profitable levels. The Company currently relies on two conduit warehouse loan financing vehicles to support its funding needs on a short-term basis – a multi-seller bank provided conduit with $8.9 billion of committed funding for FFELP student loans and a private loan warehouse with $250.0 million in authorized financing for non-federally insured student loans. The Company’s private loan warehouse terminates in January 2009. The facility for FFELP loans, which terminates in May 2010, is supported by 364-day liquidity which is up for renewal in May 2008. In order to continue funding new originations, the Company’s liquidity must be renewed. If not renewed, the Company’s ability to fund new originations in the facility will be at risk. If the Company is able to renew its liquidity on this line, it will come at an increased cost compared to historical periods. If the Company is not able to renew the liquidity on this facility or renew the facility at a price acceptable to the Company, it may become a term facility with a maturity date of May 2010. The Company’s cost of financing on the term facility would be slightly higher than its current cost of funds as a warehouse facility. If the Company’s warehouse facility becomes a term facility, the Company will no longer be able to fund new FFELP student loan originations or acquisitions. The terms and conditions of the Company’s warehouse facility for FFELP loans provide for advance rates related to financed loans subject to a valuation formula based on current market conditions. Dislocation in the credit markets including disruptions in the current capital markets can and will cause short-term volatility in the loan valuation formulas and could reduce advance rates requiring a portion of the financed loans to be funded using equity or alternative sources. Severe volatility and dislocation in the credit markets, although temporary, could cause the valuation assigned to its student loan portfolio financed by the applicable line to be less than par. Should a significant change in the valuation of subject loans require an equity contribution or reduction in advance rates greater than what the Company can or is willing to inject, the warehouse line could be subject to termination. While the Company does not believe the loan valuation formula is reflective of the fair market value of its loans, it is subject to compliance with provisions of the warehouse documents. The Company’s private loan warehouse facility has similar credit enhancement provisions. The Company uses its warehouse facilities to pool student loans in order to maximize loan portfolio characteristics for efficient financing and to properly time market conditions for movement of the loans into an asset-backed securitization. The Company has historically relied upon, and expects to continue to rely upon, asset-backed securitizations as its most significant source of funding for student loans on a long-term basis. If this market continues to experience difficulties or worsen, the Company may be unable to securitize its student loans or to do so on favorable terms, including pricing, or may do so at an increased price as compared to its current or future warehouse cost. 22 Table of Contents A number of factors could make such securitization more difficult, more expensive, or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, financial results and losses, changes within the Company’s organization, specific events that have an adverse impact on the Company’s reputation, changes in the activities of the Company’s business partners, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that have an adverse impact on the financial services industry, counter-party availability, changes affecting the Company’s assets, the Company’s corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, ratings agencies’ actions, general economic conditions, and the legal, regulatory, accounting, and tax environments governing the Company’s funding transactions. In addition, the Company’s ability to raise funds is strongly affected by the general state of the United States and world economies, and may become increasingly difficult due to economic and other factors. If the Company were unable to continue to securitize student loans on favorable terms, it could use alternative funding sources to meet liquidity needs. If the Company is unable to find cost-effective and stable funding alternatives, its funding capabilities and liquidity would be negatively impacted and its cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company’s ability to originate and acquire student loans would be limited or could be eliminated. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of the Company’s assets do not match the interest rate characteristics of the funding. The Company’s primary market risk exposure arises from fluctuations in its borrowing and lending rates, the spread between which could be impacted by shifts in market interest rates. The borrower rates on the Company’s current portfolio of federally insured loans are generally reset by the Department each July 1st based on a formula determined by the date of the origination of the loan, with the exception of rates on consolidation loans, which are generally fixed-rate to the borrower for the life of the loan. For all FFELP loans originated after July 1, 2006, the loans are fixed-rate to the borrower for the life of the loan. For FFELP loans originated prior to April 1, 2006, the interest rate the Company actually receives on federally insured loans is the greater of the borrower rate and a SAP rate determined by a formula based on a spread to either the 91-day Treasury Bill index or the 90-day commercial paper index, depending on when the loans were originated and the current repayment status of the loans. On FFELP loans originated on or after April 1, 2006, the Company only earns interest at the SAP rate determined by a formula based on 90-day commercial paper. For the FFELP portfolio of loans originated on or after April 1, 2006, when the borrower rate exceeds the variable rate based upon the SAP formula, the Company must return the excess to the Department. The Company issues asset-backed securities, the vast majority being variable-rate, to fund its student loan assets. The variable-rate debt is generally indexed to 3-month LIBOR, set by auction, or through a remarketing process. The income generated by the Company’s student loan assets is generally driven by short-term indices (Treasury bills and commercial paper) that are different from those which affect the Company’s liabilities (generally LIBOR), which creates basis risk. Moreover, the Company also faces repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on its liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as every quarter, and the timing of the interest rate resets on its assets, which generally occur daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause the Company’s student loan spread to compress, while in a rising rate environment, it may cause it to increase. In using different index types and different index reset frequencies to fund assets, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies, or will not move in the same direction or with the same magnitude. While these indices are short-term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a longer period of time, there can be no assurance that this high correlation will not be disrupted by capital market dislocations or other factors not within the Company’s control. In such circumstances, the Company’s earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. The Company uses derivative instruments to hedge the basis risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on its assets and liabilities. However, the Company does not generally hedge the basis risk due to the different interest rate indices associated with its assets and liabilities since the relationship between the indices for most of the Company’s assets and liabilities is highly correlated. Nevertheless, the basis between the indices may widen from time to time, which would impact the net spread on the portfolio. Characteristics unique to asset-backed securitizations may negatively affect the Company’s continued liquidity. The interest rates on certain of the Company’s asset-backed securities are set and periodically reset via a “dutch auction” (“Auction Rate Securities”) or through a remarketing utilizing broker-dealers and remarketing agents (“Variable Rate Demand Notes”). For Auction Rate Securities, investors and potential investors submit orders through a broker-dealer as to the principal amount of notes they wish to buy, hold, or sell at various interest rates. The broker-dealers submit their clients’ orders to the auction agent, who then determines the clearing interest rate for the upcoming period. Interest rates on these Auction Rate Securities are reset periodically, generally every 7 to 35 days, by the auction agent or agents. Recently, as part of the ongoing credit market crisis, several auction rate securities from various issuers have failed to receive sufficient order interest from potential investors to clear successfully, resulting in failed auction status. Since February 8, 2008, the Company’s Auction Rate Securities have failed in this manner. Under normal conditions, the banks would step in when investor demand is weak. However, as of recently, they have been allowing these auctions to fail. 23 Table of Contents As a result of a failed auction, the Auction Rate Securities will generally pay interest to the holder at a maximum rate as defined by the governing documents or indenture. While these rates will vary slightly by class of security, they will generally be based on a spread to Libor or Treasury Securities and will approximate the current one month LIBOR rate plus 75 to 150 basis points. These maximum rates are subject to increase if the credit ratings on the bonds are downgraded. The Company cannot predict whether future auctions related to its Auction Rate Securities will be successful. The Company is currently seeking alternatives for reducing its exposure to the auction rate market, but may not be able to achieve alternate financing for some or all of its Auction Rate Securities. For Variable Rate Demand Notes, the remarketing agents set the price, which is then offered to investors. If there are insufficient potential bid orders to purchase all of the notes offered for sale, the Company could be subject to interest costs substantially above the anticipated and historical rates paid on these types of securities. Certain of the Variable Rate Demand Notes are secured by financial guaranty insurance policies issued by Municipal Bond Investors Assurance (“MBIA”). The Variable Rate Demand Notes insured by MBIA are currently experiencing reduced investor demand and certain of these securities have been put to the liquidity provider, Lloyds TSB Bank, at a cost ranging from Federal Funds plus 150 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points. If there is no demand for the Company’s Auction Rate Securities and Variable Rate Demand Notes, the Company could be subject to interest costs substantially above the anticipated and historical rates paid on these types of securities. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk because of the interest rate characteristics of certain of its assets and the interest rate characteristics of the related funding of such assets. FFELP student loans generally earn interest at the higher of a floating rate based on the Special Allowance Payment or SAP formula set by the Department and the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time. The Company generally finances its student loan portfolio with variable-rate debt. In low and/or declining interest rate environments, when the fixed borrower rate is higher than the rate produced by the SAP formula, the Company’s student loans earn at a fixed rate while the interest on the variable-rate debt continues to decline. In these interest rate environments, the Company earns additional spread income that it refers to as fixed rate floor income. Depending on the type of the student loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to market rate each July 1. As a result, for loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, the Company earns floor income for an extended period of time, which the Company refers to as fixed rate floor income, and for those loans where the borrower rate is reset annually on July 1, the Company earns floor income to the next reset date, which the Company refers to as variable-rate floor income. In accordance with new legislation enacted in 2006, lenders are required to rebate floor income and variable-rate floor income to the Department for all new FFELP loans originated on or after April 1, 2006. Absent the use of derivative instruments, a rise in interest rates may reduce the amount of floor income received and this may have an impact on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increasing financing costs, until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with the special allowance payment formula. In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed-rate loans effectively become variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced. The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risk and such risk could lead to increased costs. As a result of the Company’s offerings in Euro-denominated notes, the Company is exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. and Euro dollars. The principal and accrued interest on these notes is re-measured at each reporting period and recorded on the Company’s balance sheet in U.S. dollars based on the foreign currency exchange rate on that date. When foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. and Euro dollars change significantly, earnings may fluctuate significantly. The Company entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps in connection with the issuance of these notes. The Company’s derivative instruments may not be successful in managing interest and foreign currency exchange rate risks, which may negatively impact the Company’s operations. When the Company utilizes derivative instruments, it utilizes them to manage interest and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity. Although the Company does not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes, its derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (“SFAS No. 133”); consequently, the change in fair value, called the “mark to market”, of these derivative instruments is included in the Company’s operating results. Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates can and have significantly impacted the valuation of the Company’s derivatives. Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates will impact the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company. Further, the Company may have to repay certain costs (including transaction fees) or be subject to wide bid/ask spreads if the Company terminates a derivative instrument. The derivative instruments used by the Company are typically in the form of interest rate swaps, basis swaps, interest rate floor contracts, and cross-currency interest rate swaps. 24 Table of Contents Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate the Company from risks associated with such fluctuations. Although the Company believes its derivative instruments are highly effective, because many of its derivatives are not balance guaranteed to a particular pool of student loans, the Company is subject to prepayment risk that could result in the Company being under or over hedged that may result in material losses to the Company. In addition, a counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation, thereby exposing the Company to counterparty risk. Further, the Company may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if the Company terminates a derivative instrument. Finally, the Company’s interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk management activities could expose the Company to substantial mark to market losses if interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates move materially differently from the environment when the derivatives were entered into. As a result, the Company cannot offer any assurance that its economic hedging activities will effectively manage its interest and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity nor have the desired beneficial impact on its results of operations or financial condition. When the mark to market of a derivative instrument is negative, the Company owes the counterparty and, therefore, has no counterparty risk. Additionally, if the negative mark to market of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, the Company may have to pay a collateral deposit to the counterparty. If interest and foreign currency exchange rates move materially, the Company could be required to deposit a significant amount of collateral with its derivative instrument counterparties. The collateral deposits, if significant, could negatively impact the Company’s capital resources. The Company attempts to manage market risks associated with interest and foreign currency exchange rates by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken. The ratings of the Company or of any securities sold by the Company may change, which may increase the Company’s costs of capital and may reduce the liquidity of the Company’s securities. Ratings are based primarily on the creditworthiness of the Company, the underlying assets of asset-backed securitizations, the amount of credit enhancement in any given transaction and the legal structure of any given transaction. Ratings are not a recommendation to purchase, hold, or sell any of the Company’s securities inasmuch as the ratings do not comment as to the market price or suitability for investors. There is no assurance that ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that current ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn by any rating agency. Ratings for the Company or any of its securities may be increased, lowered, or withdrawn by any rating agency if in the rating agency’s judgment circumstances so warrant. If the Company’s credit ratings are lowered or withdrawn, the Company may experience an increase in interest rates or other costs associated with the capital raising activities by the Company, which may negatively affect the Company’s operations. Additionally, a lowered or withdrawn credit rating may negatively affect the liquidity of the Company’s securities. The Company may be limited in its ability to pay dividends or make other payments as a result of the terms of certain outstanding securities issued by the Company. In September 2006, the Company issued certain junior subordinated hybrid securities (the “Hybrid Securities”). So long as the Hybrid Securities remain outstanding, if the Company has given notice of its election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing, then the Company will not, and will not permit any of its subsidiaries to: • declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment regarding, any of the Company’s capital stock; • except as required in connection with the repayment of principal, and except for any partial payments of deferred interest that may be made through the alternative payment mechanism described in the indenture relating to the Hybrid Securities, make any payment of principal of, or interest or premium, if any, on, or repay, repurchase or redeem any of the Company’s debt securities that rank pari passu with or junior to the Hybrid Securities; or • make any guaranty payments regarding any guaranty by the Company of the subordinated debt securities of any of the Company’s subsidiaries if the guaranty ranks pari passu with or junior in interest to the Hybrid Securities. In addition, if any deferral period lasts longer than one year, the limitation on the Company’s ability to redeem or repurchase any of its securities that rank pari passu with or junior in interest to the Hybrid Securities will continue until the first anniversary of the date on which all deferred interest has been paid or cancelled. 25 Table of Contents If the Company is involved in a business combination where immediately after its consummation more than 50% of the surviving entity’s voting stock is owned by the shareholders of the other party to the business combination, then the immediately preceding sentence will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next interest payment date following the date of consummation of the business combination. However, at any time, including during a deferral period, the Company will be permitted to: • pay dividends or distributions in additional shares of the Company’s capital stock; • declare or pay a dividend in connection with the implementation of a shareholders’ rights plan, or issue stock under such a plan, or redeem or repurchase any rights distributed pursuant to such a plan; and • purchase common stock for issuance pursuant to any employee benefit plans. If the Company’s stock price falls, the Company’s contingent obligations under certain agreements related to business acquisitions increase. In November 2005, the Company purchased the remaining 50% of the stock of 5280 Solutions, Inc. (“5280”). Consideration for the purchase was 258,760 restricted shares of the Company’s Class A common stock. The 258,760 shares of Class A common stock issued in the acquisition are subject to put option agreements whereby during the 30-day period ending November 30, 2008 the holders may require the Company to repurchase all or part of the shares at a price of $37.10 per share. The value of the put options as of the closing date of the acquisition was $1.2 million and was recorded by the Company as additional purchase price. The change in the value of the put option each reporting period is included in the Company’s operating results. As of December 31, 2007, the value of the put options was $6.1 million. The fair value of these options is primarily affected by the strike price and term of the underlying option, the Company’s current stock price, and the dividend yield and volatility of the Company’s stock. Accordingly, changes or shifts in these inputs will impact the financial position and results of operations of the Company. In February 2006, the Company purchased the remaining 50% of the stock of infiNET Integrated Solutions, Inc. (“infiNET”). Consideration for the purchase of the remaining 50% of the stock of infiNET was $9.5 million in cash and 95,380 restricted shares of the Company’s Class A common stock. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the 95,380 shares of Class A common stock issued in the acquisition are subject to stock price guaranty provisions whereby if on or about February 28, 2011 the average market trading price of the Class A common stock is less than $104.8375 per share and has not exceeded that price for any 25 consecutive trading days during the 5-year period from the closing of the acquisition to February 28, 2011, then the Company must pay additional cash to the sellers of infiNET for each share of Class A common stock issued in an amount representing the difference between $104.8375 less the greater of $41.9335 or the gross sales price such seller obtained from a sale of the shares occurring subsequent to February 28, 2011 as defined in the agreement. Any payment on the guaranty is reduced by the aggregate of any dividends or other distributions made by the Company to the sellers. Any cash paid by the Company in consideration of satisfying the guaranteed value of stock issued for this acquisition would be recorded by the Company as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. General Risk Factors Incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements could adversely affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses. The preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies”. The Company’s future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. The outcome of legal proceedings may differ from the Company’s expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in any particular period. 26 Table of Contents The Company’s failure to successfully manage business and certain asset acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. The Company may acquire new products and services or enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel, or through investments in other companies. During 2004 through 2006, the Company acquired the stock and certain assets of 17 different entities. Any acquisition or investment is subject to a number of risks. Such risks may include diversion of management time and resources, disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, difficulties in integrating acquisitions, dilution to existing stockholders if the Company’s common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition, lack of familiarity with new markets, and difficulties in supporting new product lines. The Company’s failure to successfully manage acquisitions or investments, or successfully integrate acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. Correspondingly, the Company’s expectations to the accretive nature of the acquisitions could be inaccurate. The market price of the Company’s Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors. From January 1, 2007 to February 15, 2008, the closing daily sales price of the Company’s Class A common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $9.84 per share to a high of $28.00 per share. The Company expects the Class A common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond the Company’s control. These factors include: • changes in interest rates and credit market conditions affecting the cost and availability of financing for the Company’s student loan assets; • changes in the education financing regulatory framework; • changes in demand for education financing or other products and services that the Company offers; • variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations of comparable companies; and • future sales of the Company’s Class A common stock. The Company may not meet the expectations of shareholders and/or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock could decline as a result. The Company may not always pay dividends on its common stock. The payment of future dividends on the Company’s shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock remains in the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and will continue to depend on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors. In addition, the payment of dividends is subject to the terms of certain other outstanding securities issued by the Company as discussed above. The Board of Directors may determine in the future to reduce the current quarterly dividend rate of $0.07 per share or discontinue the payment of dividends altogether. Negative publicity that may be associated with the student lending industry, including negative publicity about the Company, may harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect operating results. Recently, the student lending industry has been the subject of various investigations and reports. The publicity associated with these investigations and reports may have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation. To the extent that potential or existing customers decide not to utilize the Company’s products or services as a result of such publicity, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected. If management does not effectively execute the Company’s restructuring plans, this could adversely affect the Company’s operations, revenue, and the ability to compete. On September 6, 2007, the Company announced a strategic restructuring initiative to create efficiencies and lower costs in advance of the enactment of the College Cost Reduction Act, which impacted the FFEL Program in which the Company participates. The Company has significant financing needs that it meets through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary markets. Since August 2007, these markets have experienced unprecedented disruptions, which are having an adverse impact on the Company’s earnings and financial condition. On January 23, 2008, the Company announced a plan to further reduce operating expenses related to its student loan origination and related businesses as a result of the ongoing disruption in the credit markets. 27 Table of Contents The Company continues to implement its restructuring initiatives, including lowering the cost of student loan acquisition, creating efficiencies in its asset generation business, and decreasing operating expenses through a reduction in workforce and realignment of operating facilities. The Company expects these initiatives to be substantially completed during 2008. If the Company is unable to successfully implement its reorganization initiatives or if those initiatives do not have the desired effects or result in the projected efficiencies, the Company may incur additional or unexpected expenses which would adversely affect the Company’s operations and revenues. Failures in the Company’s information technology system could materially disrupt its business. The Company’s servicing and operating processes are highly dependent upon its information technology system infrastructure, and the Company faces the risk of business disruption if failures in its information systems occur, which could have a material impact upon its business and operations. The Company depends heavily on its own computer-based data processing systems in servicing both its own student loans and those of third-party servicing customers and providing tuition payment and campus commerce transactions and lead generation products and services. The Company regularly backs up its data and maintains detailed disaster recovery plans. A major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to information systems could adversely affect the Company’s business. Additionally, loss of information systems for a sustained period of time could have a negative impact on the Company’s performance and ultimately on cash flow in the event the Company were unable to process transactions and/or provide services to customers. A loss of customer data requiring notification to customers could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company, on its own behalf and on behalf of other entities, stores a significant amount of personal data about the customers to whom the Company provides services. If the Company were to suffer a major loss of customer data, through breach of its systems or otherwise, entities for which the Company provides services might choose to find another service provider. Certain participants in the Company’s stock compensation and benefit plans may have rescission rights with respect to shares of stock acquired under those plans. In April 2007, the Company discovered that as a result of inadvertent issues related to the delivery of documents to participants, certain participants in the Company’s Employee Share Purchase Plan, Restricted Stock Plan, Directors Stock Compensation Plan, and Employee Stock Purchase Loan Plan may not have during certain time frames actually received all of the information required to constitute a fully compliant prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933. While the issuance of shares under those plans has been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under registration statements on Form S-8, it is a violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933 to sell a security for which a registration statement has been filed unless accompanied or preceded by a prospectus that meets the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933. Section 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 generally provides for a one-year rescission right for an investor who acquires a security from a seller who does not comply with the prospectus delivery requirements of Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933. As such, an investor successfully asserting a rescission right during the one-year time period has the right to require an issuer to repurchase the securities acquired by the investor at the price paid by the investor for the securities (or if such security has been disposed of, to receive damages with respect to any loss on such disposition), plus interest from the date of acquisition. These rights may apply to affected participants in the Company’s plans. The Company believes that its potential liability for rescission claims or other damages is not material to the Company’s financial condition; however, the Company’s potential liability could become material to results of operations for a particular period if, during the one-year period following non-compliant sales, the market price of the shares of Class A common stock falls significantly below the affected participants’ acquisition prices. Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease the Company’s net income. A corporation is considered to be a “personal holding company” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), if (1) at least 60% of its adjusted ordinary gross income is “personal holding company income” (generally, passive income) and (2) at any time during the last half of the taxable year more than half, by value, of its stock is owned by five or fewer individuals, as determined under attribution rules of the Code. If both of these tests are met, a personal holding company is subject to an additional tax on its undistributed personal holding company income, currently at a 15% rate. Five or fewer individuals hold more than half the value of the Company’s stock. In June 2003, the Company submitted a request for a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service seeking a determination that its federally guaranteed student loans qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code. Such a determination would have assured the Company that holding such loans does not make it a personal holding company. Based on its historical practice of not issuing private letter rulings concerning matters that it considers to be primarily factual, however, the Internal Revenue Service has indicated that it will not issue the requested ruling, taking no position on the merits of the legal issue. 28 Table of Contents So long as more than half of the Company’s value continues to be held by five or fewer individuals, if it were to be determined that some portion of its federally guaranteed student loans does not qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code, the Company could become subject to personal holding company tax on its undistributed personal holding company income. The Company continues to believe that neither Nelnet, Inc. nor any of its subsidiaries is a personal holding company. However, even if Nelnet, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries was determined to be a personal holding company, the Company believes that by utilizing intercompany distributions, it could eliminate or substantially eliminate its exposure to personal holding company taxes, although it cannot assure that this will be the case. The Company is subject to federal and state income tax laws and regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. If states enact legislation, alter apportionment methodologies, or aggressively apply the income tax nexus standards, the Company may become subject to additional state taxes. The applicability and taxation on the earnings from intangible personal property has been the subject of state audits and litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. As the Congress and U.S. Supreme Court have not provided clear guidance in this regard, conflicting state laws and court decisions create tremendous uncertainty and expense for taxpayers conducting interstate commerce. During 2007, the Company began to be examined by multiple state taxing authorities. These taxing authorities routinely challenge certain filing methodologies, apportionment, and certain deductions reported by the Company on its income tax returns. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and FAS Interpretation No. 48, Account for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, the Company establishes reserves for tax contingencies related to deductions and credits that it may be unable to sustain. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts ultimately owed are recorded in the period they become known. Adjustments to the Company’s reserves could have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. In October 2007, the Company received a letter from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) revoking a previously issued Private Letter Ruling retroactive to September 30, 2003 concerning the Company’s arbitrage and excess interest calculations on certain of its tax-exempt bonds. The IRS letter provided procedures for the Company to follow to appeal the retroactive application of the revocation. The Company responded to the IRS in November 2007 requesting relief from retroactivity and has recently received a request for additional information from the IRS. The Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the IRS letter and has not determined its legal remedies if its request regarding retroactive application is denied. An adverse outcome could be material to the financial statements and could cause the Company to take action with respect to surplus fund withdrawals since September 30, 2003 if the Private Letter Ruling is applied retroactively. Transactions with affiliates and potential conflicts of interest of certain of the Company’s officers and directors, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, pose risks to the Company’s shareholders that the Company may not enter into transactions on the same terms that the Company could receive from unrelated, third-parties. The Company has entered into certain contractual arrangements with entities controlled by Michael S. Dunlap, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, and members of his family and, to a lesser extent, with entities in which other directors and members of management hold equity interests or board or management positions. Such arrangements constitute a significant portion of the Company’s business and include sales of student loans and student loan origination rights by such affiliates to the Company. These arrangements may present potential conflicts of interest. Many of these arrangements are with Union Bank and Trust Company (“Union Bank”), in which Michael S. Dunlap owns an indirect interest and of which he serves as non-executive chairman. The Company intends to maintain its relationship with Union Bank, which management believes provides substantial benefits to the Company, although there can be no assurance that any transactions between the Company and entities controlled by Mr. Dunlap, his family, and/or other officers and directors of the Company are, or in the future will be, on terms that are no less favorable than what could be obtained from an unrelated third party. The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns a substantial percentage of the Company’s Class A and Class B common stock and is able to control all matters subject to a shareholder vote. Michael S. Dunlap, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, beneficially owns a substantial percentage of the Company’s outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Each share of Class A common stock has one vote and each share of Class B common stock has ten votes on all matters to be voted upon by the Company’s shareholders. As a result, Mr. Dunlap is able to control all matters requiring approval by the Company’s shareholders, including the election of all members of the Board of Directors, and may do so in a manner with which other shareholders may not agree or which they may not consider to be in the best interest of other shareholders. In addition, Stephen F. Butterfield, the Company’s Vice Chairman, owns a substantial number of shares of Class B common stock. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 