ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe operate our business in a highly competitive and regulated environment. We are subject to risks including, but not limited to, market, liquidity, credit, regulatory, technology, operational, security, and other business risks such as reputation damage related to negative publicity and dependencies on key personnel, customers, vendors, and systems. This section highlights specific risks that could affect us. Although this section attempts to highlight key risk factors, other risks may emerge at any time and we cannot predict all risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information included in this report. Student Loan PortfolioOur student loan portfolio is subject to certain risks related to interest rates, our ability to manage the risks related to interest rates, prepayment, and credit risk, each of which could reduce the expected cash flows and earnings on our portfolio.Interest rate risk - basis and repricing riskWe are exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of our student loan assets do not match the interest rate characteristics of the funding for those assets.We fund the majority of our student loan assets with one-month or three-month LIBOR indexed floating rate securities. In addition, the interest rates on some of our debt are set via a “dutch auction” or through a periodic remarketing. Meanwhile, the interest earned on our student loan assets is indexed to commercial paper and treasury bill rates. The different interest rate characteristics of our loan assets and our liabilities funding these assets results in basis risk. We also face repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on our liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as once a quarter, in contrast to the timing of the interest rate resets on our assets, which generally occur daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause our student loan spread to compress, while in a rising interest rate environment, it may cause the spread to increase.As of December 31, 2011, we had $23.4 billion and $0.9 billion of FFELP loans indexed to the three-month financial commercial paper rate and the three-month treasury bill rate, respectively, both of which reset daily, and $19.6 billion of debt indexed to the three-month LIBOR, which resets quarterly, and $0.7 billion of debt indexed to the one-month LIBOR, which resets monthly. While these indices are all short term in nature with rate movements that are highly correlated over a longer period of time, there have been points in recent history related to the U.S. and European debt crisis that have caused volatility to be high and correlation to be reduced. There can be no assurance that the indices' historically high level of correlation will not be disrupted in the future due to capital market dislocations or other factors not within our control. In such circumstances, our earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. See Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Interest Rate Risk.”On December 23, 2011, the President signed the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012 into law. This Act includes changes to the FFELP student lender payment index from the commercial paper rate to the one-month LIBOR rate for the Special Allowance Payment calculation on outstanding FFELP loans held by student loan lenders. As of December 31, 2011, we had $23.4 billion of loans in which we intend to make the election to change the SAP calculation to the one-month LIBOR rate. This change mitigates the Company's exposure to basis risk and will allow the Company to better match borrowing and lending rates. The Company currently expects the new formula to be developed and available for use in the second quarter of 2012. Interest rate risk - loss of floor incomeWe are exposed to interest rate risk because of the interest rate characteristics of certain of our student loan assets and the interest rate characteristics of the related funding of those assets.FFELP loans originated prior to April 1, 2006 generally earn interest at the higher of a floating rate based on the Special Allowance Payment formula set by the Department and the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time. We generally finance our student loan portfolio with variable rate debt. In low and/or declining interest rate environments, when the fixed borrower rate is higher than the rate produced by the SAP formula, our student loans earn at a fixed rate while the interest on the variable rate debt typically continues to decline. In these interest rate environments, we may earn additional spread income that we refer to as floor income.Depending on the type of loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to an annual rate each July 1. As a result, for loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, we may earn floor income for an extended period of 13time, which we refer to as fixed rate floor income, and for those loans where the borrower rate is reset annually on July 1, we may earn floor income to the next reset date, which we refer to as variable rate floor income. In accordance with legislation enacted in 2006, lenders are required to rebate fixed rate floor income and variable rate floor income to the Department for all new FFELP loans originated on or after April 1, 2006.For the year ended December 31, 2011, we earned $144.5 million of fixed rate floor income, net of $20.2 million of settlements paid related to derivatives used to hedge loans earning fixed rate floor income. Absent the use of derivative instruments, a rise in interest rates will reduce the amount of floor income received and this will have an impact on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increased financing costs until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with their SAP formulas. In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed rate loans effectively convert to variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced. See Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Interest Rate Risk.”Interest rate risk - use of derivativesWe utilize derivative instruments to manage interest rate sensitivity. Our derivative instruments are intended as economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting; consequently, the change in fair value, called the “mark-to-market,” of these derivative instruments is included in our operating results. Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve can and have significantly impacted the valuation of our derivatives. Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve will impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. Although we believe our derivative instruments are highly effective, because many of our derivatives are not balance guaranteed to a particular pool of student loans, we are subject to prepayment risk that could result in being under or over hedged, which could result in material losses. In addition, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial mark-to-market losses if interest rates move in a materially different way than was expected based on the environment when the derivatives were entered into. As a result, we cannot offer any assurance that our economic hedging activities will effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition.By using derivative instruments, we are exposed to credit and market risk.We attempt to manage credit and market risks associated with interest rates by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken and by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by our risk committee. As of December 31, 2011, all of our derivative counterparties had investment grade credit ratings. We also have a policy of requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Master Agreement.When the fair value of a derivative contract is positive (an asset on our balance sheet), this generally indicates that the counterparty owes us if the derivative was settled. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk with such counterparty is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative less any collateral held by us. If we were unable to collect from a counterparty, we would have a loss equal to the amount the derivative is recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of our derivatives, which had a positive fair value in our favor (an asset on our balance sheet), was $92.2 million, of which $80.6 million related to the fair value of our cross-currency interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2011, our trustee held $73.4 million of collateral from the counterparty on the cross-currency interest rate swaps. When the fair value of a derivative instrument is negative (a liability on our balance sheet), we would owe the counterparty if the derivative was settled and, therefore, have no immediate credit risk. If the negative fair value of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, we may have to make a collateral deposit with the counterparty. The threshold at which we may be required to post collateral is dependent upon our unsecured credit rating. Based on our current unsecured credit ratings (Standard and Poor: BBB- (stable outlook) and Moody's: Ba1 (stable outlook)), we have substantially collateralized our corporate derivative liability position with our counterparties. As such, further downgrades would not result in additional collateral requirements of a material nature. In addition, no counterparty has the right to terminate its contracts in the event of further downgrades. However, some long dated derivative contracts have mutual optional termination provisions that can be exercised in 2016 and 2021. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of derivatives with early termination provisions was a negative $0.1 million (a liability on our balance sheet).Interest rate movements have an impact on the amount of collateral we are required to deposit with our derivative instrument counterparties. Based on the interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2011 (for both the floor income and hybrid debt 14hedges), if the forward interest rate curve was one basis point lower for the remaining duration of these derivatives, we would have been required to post $0.7 million in additional collateral. In addition, if the forward basis curve between 1-month and 3-month LIBOR experienced a one basis point reduction in spread for the remaining duration of our 1:3 Basis Swap derivatives (in which we pay 1-month LIBOR and receive 3-month LIBOR), we would have been required to post $5.1 million in additional collateral. With our current derivative portfolio, we do not currently anticipate any movement in interest rates having a material impact on our capital or liquidity profile, nor expect that any movement in interest rates would have a material impact on our ability to meet potential collateral deposits with our counterparties. Due to the existing low interest rate environment, our exposure to downward movements in interest rates on our interest rate swaps is limited. In addition, the historical high correlation between 1-month and 3-month LIBOR and the limited notional amount of 1:3 Basis Swap derivatives outstanding limits our exposure to interest rate movements on these derivatives. However, if interest rates move materially and negatively impact the fair value of our derivative portfolio or if we enter into additional derivatives in which the fair value of such derivatives become negative, we could be required to deposit a significant amount of collateral with our derivative instrument counterparties. The collateral deposits, if significant, could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of our derivatives, which had a negative fair value (a liability on our balance sheet), was $43.8 million and we had $34.0 million posted as collateral to derivative counterparties. The Company's cross-currency interest rate swaps are derivatives entered into as a result of certain asset-backed security financings. These derivatives are entered into at the trust level with the counterparty. Trust related derivatives do not contain credit contingent features related to the Company or the trust's credit ratings. As such, there are no collateral requirements and as a result the impact of changes to foreign currency rates has no impact on the amount of collateral the Company would be required to deposit with the counterparty on these derivatives.Prepayment riskHigher rates of prepayments of student loans, including consolidation by the Department through the Federal Direct Loan Program, would reduce our interest income.Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty. Prepayments may result from consolidation of student loans by the Department as part of the Federal Direct Loan Program, which historically tends to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments, from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment, and from voluntary full or partial prepayments, among other things.On October 25, 2011, the White House and the Department announced a short-term consolidation initiative to eligible student loan borrowers beginning in January 2012 and ending June 30, 2012. The Department's initiative will allow student loan borrowers with at least one FFELP loan and at least one federal student loan owned by the Department to convert the FFELP loans to the Federal Direct Loan Program, at which time all of the converted loans, as well as the borrower's existing Direct Loans, would be considered a Special Direct Consolidation Loan. Less than $2.9 billion of our $24.3 billion FFELP portfolio is eligible for this initiative. Based on borrower responses to date, the Company does not expect its portfolio of FFELP loans to be significantly impacted by this initiative. However, if this short-term initiative is deemed to be beneficial to the Department, it could be extended or a similar consolidation program could be initiated that could further increase prepayments and reduce interest income. The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, political, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates, federal budgetary pressures, and the availability of alternative financing. Our profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which reduce the balance of loans outstanding and, therefore, the amount of interest income we receive. Credit riskFuture losses due to defaults on loans held by us, or loans sold to unaffiliated third parties which we are obligated to repurchase in the event of certain delinquencies, present credit risk which could adversely affect our earnings.Over 99 percent of our student loan portfolio is federally guaranteed. The allowance for loan losses from the federally insured loan portfolio is based on periodic evaluations of our loan portfolios considering loans in repayment versus those in nonpaying status, delinquency status, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, trends in student loan claims rejected for payment by guarantors, changes to federal student loan programs, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. The federal government currently guarantees 97 percent of the principal and interest on federally insured student 15loans disbursed on and after July 1, 2006 (and 98 percent for those loans disbursed prior to July 1, 2006), which limits our loss exposure on the outstanding balance of our federally insured portfolio. Student loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993 are fully insured for both principal and interest.Our non-federally insured loans are unsecured, with neither a government nor a private insurance guarantee. Accordingly, we bear the full risk of loss on these loans if the borrower and co-borrower, if applicable, default. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses on the non-federally insured loans, we consider several factors, including: loans in repayment versus those in a nonpaying status, delinquency status, type of program, trends in defaults in the portfolio based on Company and industry data, past experience, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. We place a non-federally insured loan on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal and interest is 30 days past due and charge off the loan when the collection of principal and interest is 120 days past due.The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. As of December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses was $48.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized a provision for loan losses of $21.3 million. The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that management believes is adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes, and other unforeseen future trends. If actual performance is worse than estimated, it would materially affect our estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in our statements of income.We have participated interests in non-federally insured loans to unaffiliated third parties. Loans participated under these agreements have been accounted for as loan sales. Accordingly, the participation interests sold are not included on our consolidated balance sheet. Under the terms of the servicing agreements, our servicing operations are obligated to repurchase loans subject to the participation interests when such loans become 60 or 90 days delinquent. As of December 31, 2011, we had a reserve related to this obligation of $19.2 million included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. The evaluation of the reserve related to these participated loans is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that may be subject to changes. If actual performance is worse than estimated, it would negatively affect our results of operations.Liquidity and FundingWe fund student loans in FFELP warehouse facilities and a Department conduit program. The current maturities of these facilities do not match the maturity of the related funded assets. Therefore, we will need to modify and/or find alternative funding related to the student loan collateral in these facilities prior to their expiration. If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities.The majority of our portfolio of student loans is funded with asset-backed securitizations that are structured to substantially match the maturity of the funded assets and there are minimal liquidity issues related to these facilities. We also have student loans funded in FFELP warehouse facilities and a Department conduit program. The current maturities of these facilities do not match the maturity of the related funded assets. Therefore, we will need to modify and/or find alternative funding related to the student loan collateral in these facilities prior to their expiration.We maintain three FFELP warehouse facilities as described in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources." These facilities have revolving financing structures supported by 364-day liquidity provisions, which expire in 2012 and 2013. In the event we are unable to renew the liquidity provisions, the facilities would become a term facility at a stepped-up cost, with no additional student loans being eligible for financing, and we would be required to refinance the existing loans in the facilities by their final maturity dates in 2014 and 2015. The warehouse facilities provide for formula based advance rates depending on FFELP loan type. The advance rates may increase or decrease based on market conditions. The FFELP warehouse facilities also contain financial covenants relating to levels of our consolidated net worth, ratio of adjusted EBITDA to corporate debt interest, and unencumbered cash. Any violation of these covenants could result in a requirement for the immediate repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the facilities. As of December 31, 2011, $824.4 million was outstanding under the warehouse facilities and $58.5 million was advanced as equity support. In May 2009, the Department implemented a program under which it finances eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans in a conduit vehicle established to provide funding for student lenders (the “Conduit Program”). Funding for the Conduit Program is provided by the capital markets at a cost based on market rates, in which we were advanced 97 percent of the student loan face amount. Excess amounts needed to fund the remaining 3 percent of the student loan balances were contributed by us. The Conduit Program expires on May 8, 2014. The Student Loan Short-Term Notes (“Student Loan Notes”) issued by the Conduit Program are supported 16by a combination of (i) notes backed by FFELP loans, (ii) a liquidity agreement with the Federal Financing Bank, and (iii) a put agreement provided by the Department. If the conduit does not have sufficient funds to pay all Student Loan Notes, then those Student Loan Notes will be repaid with funds from the Federal Financing Bank. The Federal Financing Bank will hold the notes for a short period of time and, if at the end of that time, the Student Loan Notes still cannot be paid off, the underlying FFELP loans that serve as collateral to the Conduit Program will be sold to the Department through a put agreement at a price of 97 percent of the face amount of the loans. As of December 31, 2011, $2.3 billion was outstanding under this facility and we had $84.7 million of operating cash advanced in the facility.If we are unable to obtain cost-effective funding alternatives for the loans in the FFELP warehouse facilities or the Conduit Program prior to the facilities' maturities, our cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting our results of operations. If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities.We are exposed to mark-to-formula collateral support risk on our FFELP warehouse facilities.Our warehouse facilities for FFELP loans provide formula based advance rates based on current market conditions, which require equity support to be posted to the facilities. As of December 31, 2011, $58.5 million was advanced as equity support under these facilities. Should a significant change in the valuation of loans result in additional required equity funding support for the warehouse facilities greater than what we can provide, the warehouse facilities could be subject to an event of default resulting in termination of the facilities and an acceleration of the repayment provisions. If we cannot find any funding alternatives, we would lose our collateral, including the student loan assets and cash advances, related to these facilities. A default on the FFELP warehouse facilities would result in an event of default on our new $250.0 million unsecured line of credit that would result in the outstanding balance on the line of credit becoming immediately due and payable. OperationsRisks associated with our operations, as further discussed below, include those related to our information technology systems and security and privacy breaches, our ability to manage performance related to regulatory requirements, and the importance of maintaining scale by retaining existing customers and attracting new business opportunities. A failure in or breach of our operational or information systems or infrastructure, or those of our third-party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs, and cause losses. As a loan servicer, hosted loan servicing software provider, and payment processor for the federal government, financial institutions, and the education industry that serves millions of customers through the Internet and other distribution channels across the U.S., we depend on our ability to process, secure, record, and monitor a large number of customer transactions and confidential information on a continuous basis. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to support and process customer transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our Asset Generation and Management, Student Loan and Guaranty Servicing, Tuition Payment Processing and Campus Commerce, and Enrollment Processing business segments rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC's, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers' devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of Company or customer confidential, proprietary, and other information, or otherwise disrupt the Company's or our customers' business operations. A cyber attack or information security breach of this nature could significantly affect our ability to retain strategic business customers which could lead to increased costs to retain customers or a material loss of future revenue. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, data centers, data storage locations, collection services, distribution centers, or other vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. 17Although to date we have not experienced a material loss relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future or a current threat remains undetected at this time. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the size and scale of our servicing contracts and our contract with the federal government. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our training, controls, processes, and practices designed to protect and monitor our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a priority for the Company and each of our business segments. Additionally, we maintain technology and telecommunication, professional services, media, network security, privacy, injury, and liability insurance coverage to offset costs that may be incurred as a result of a cyber attack or information security breach. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.Additionally, we must continually and cost-effectively maintain and improve our information technology systems and infrastructure in order to successfully deliver competitive products and services to our customers. The widespread adoption of new technologies and market demands could require substantial expenditures to enhance system infrastructure and existing products and services. If we fail to enhance and scale our systems and operational infrastructure or products and services, our operating segments may lose their competitive advantage and this could adversely affect financial and operating results. We also face the risk of business disruption if system outages occur as a result of changes in infrastructure, introduction of new software or software enhancements, relocation of infrastructure, or failure to perform required services, which could have a material impact upon our reputation and our ability to retain customers. Although we have business continuity management plans, a major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to or the loss of our information systems or business operations for a sustained period of time could adversely affect our business, cash flows, and ability to retain customers.We must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of our federally insured loans, and we may incur penalties or lose our guarantees if we fail to meet these requirements.We must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guaranty on our federally insured loans. The federal guaranty on our federally insured loans is conditional based on our compliance with origination, servicing, and collection policies set by the Department and guaranty agencies. Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department's and guaranty agency regulations may risk partial or complete loss of the guaranty. If we experience a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another, errors in the loan origination process, establishment of the borrower's repayment status, and due diligence or claim filing processes), it could result in the loan guarantee being revoked or denied. In most cases we have the opportunity to cure these deficiencies by following a prescribed cure process which usually involves obtaining the borrower's reaffirmation of the debt. The lender becomes ineligible for special allowance interest benefits from the time of the first error leading to the loan rejection through the date that the loan is cured.We are allowed three years from the date of the loan rejection to cure most loan rejections. If a cure cannot be achieved during this three year period, insurance is permanently revoked, although we maintain our right to collect the loan proceeds from the borrower.A guaranty agency may also assess an interest penalty upon claim payment if the error(s) does not result in a loan rejection. These interest penalties are not subject to cure provisions and are typically related to isolated instances of due diligence deficiencies.Failure to comply with federal and guarantor regulations may result in loss of insurance or assessment of interest penalties at the time of claim reimbursement by us. A future increase in either loan claim rejections and/or interest penalties could become material to our operations.As of December 31, 2011, the Company serviced $28.1 billion of FFELP loans that maintained a federal guarantee, of which $22.7 billion and $5.4 billion were owned by the Company and third-party entities, respectively. 18Our largest fee-based customer, the Department of Education, allocates Federal Direct Loan Program servicing volume based on our and our competitors' performance metrics. Failure to be ranked above our competitors will lead to lower loan volume allocations and could lower our ability to renew the Department contract in 2014 and retain hosted servicing software clients who also service Federal Direct Loan Program loans. In June 2009, we were one of four private sector companies awarded a student loan servicing contract by the Department of Education to provide additional servicing capacity for loans owned by the Department. These loans include Federal Direct Loan Program loans originated directly by the Department and FFEL Program loans purchased by the Department. The contract spans five years (through June 2011), with one five-year renewal at the option of the Department. In September 2009, the Department began assigning purchased FFELP loans to the four servicers. Beginning with the second year of servicing in June 2010, the Department began allocating new loan volume originated under the Federal Direct Loan Program among the four servicers based on five equally weighted performance metrics. •Three metrics measure the satisfaction among separate customer groups, including borrowers, financial aid personnel at postsecondary schools participating in the federal student loan program, and Federal Student Aid and other federal agency personnel or contractors who work with the servicers.•Two performance metrics measure the success of default prevention efforts as reflected by the percentage of borrowers and percentage of dollars in each servicer's portfolio that go into default. Based on the first and second years of survey results, the Company was ranked fourth out of the four private sector companies and has been allocated 16% of new loan volume originated by the Department from the period from August 15, 2010 through August 14, 2012 (the second and third years of the servicing contract). The Department projects it will originate new loans for 4.1 million borrowers in total during the third year of this contract (August 15, 2011 through August 14, 2012), which is currently being allocated to the four servicers. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was servicing $46.1 billion of loans for 3.0 million borrowers under this contract. During 2011, the Company earned $51.0 million in revenue under this contract. Additionally, the Company offers a hosted servicing software solution that can be used by third-party clients to service various types of student loans, including Federal Direct Loan Program and FFEL Program loans. As of December 31, 2011, 9.6 million borrowers were hosted on the Company's hosted servicing software solution platforms. Upon the expiration of the Department of Education contract, any renewal to provide loan servicing to the Department could be subject to a bidding process in which we may not be successful. Not obtaining a renewal of a loan servicing contract upon its expiration would result in a significant reduction in revenue and we would have to make significant changes to our operations, which may result in the recording of special charges, such as workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidating excess facilities, and impairments of assets. Additionally, not obtaining a renewal of the Department loan servicing contract could put at risk the long-term viability of the hosted servicing software solution agreements. Management believes it is important to provide exceptional customer service at a reasonable price in order to increase the Company's servicing volume, renew the Department contract, and grow the hosted servicing software business; therefore, the Company has focused and will continue to focus heavily on customer service-related projects, efficiencies, security, and technology development to improve its allocation in future years of the contract. Regulatory and Legal Federal and state regulations can restrict our business, and noncompliance with these regulations could result in penalties, litigation, and reputation damage. Our operating segments and commercial customers are heavily regulated by federal and state government regulatory agencies. The laws and regulations enforced by these agencies are proposed or enacted to protect consumers and the financial industry as a whole, not necessarily the Company, our operating segments, or our stockholders. Consequently, these laws and regulations can significantly alter the business environment, limit business operations, increase costs of doing business, and could lead to fines or penalties if we were found to be out of compliance. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, and establishes the new federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”). The CFPB, an independent agency within 19the Federal Reserve, will regulate consumer financial products, including education loans, and other financial services offered primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, and the CFPB and other federal agencies, including the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”), are required to undertake various assessments and rulemaking to implement the law. Significant powers pertaining to the CFPB became active with the recess appointment of Richard Cordroy as Director on January 4, 2012. The majority of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act are aimed at financial institutions. However, there are components of the law that will have an impact on us, including new requirements for derivatives and securitizations as discussed below, corporate governance and executive compensation provisions for public companies, and provisions which may impact us as we work with financial institutions and credit rating agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act provides the CFTC and the SEC with substantial new authority to regulate over-the-counter derivatives transactions, and includes provisions that require derivatives transactions to be executed through an exchange or centrally cleared, unless an exemption applies based on regulations to be developed by the CFTC and the SEC. The CFTC and the SEC have initiated rulemaking processes with respect to derivatives. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these processes, new regulations in this area may result in increased costs and cash collateral margin requirements for the types of derivatives we use to hedge or otherwise manage our financial risks related to volatility in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. There are also provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that will affect future student loan portfolio securitization financing transactions which result in the issuance of asset-backed securities. The SEC and federal banking agencies are directed to adopt regulations requiring issuers of asset backed securities or persons who organize and initiate asset-backed securities transactions to retain a portion of the underlying assets' credit risk, new disclosure and reporting requirements for each tranche of asset-backed securities, including new loan-level data requirements, and new disclosure requirements relating to the representations, warranties, and enforcement mechanisms available to investors in asset-backed securities. The SEC has issued proposed new rules governing asset-backed securities. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this rulemaking, the Dodd-Frank Act provisions and new regulations in this area are expected to affect the terms of future student loan securitization transactions that we facilitate and result in greater risk retention and less flexibility for structuring such transactions. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact our business and operations. As rules and regulations are promulgated by the federal agencies responsible for implementing and enforcing the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act, we will need to apply adequate resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions. Compliance with these new laws and regulations may result in additional costs and may otherwise adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Certain provisions in new regulations issued by the Department under the Higher Education Act that became effective July 1, 2011 could have an impact on our Enrollment Services operating segment in connection with services it provides to for-profit schools. The Higher Education Act provides that, to be eligible to participate in federal student financial aid programs (Title IV funds), educational institutions, including for-profit schools, must enter into a program participation agreement with the Department. The agreement includes a number of conditions with which an institution must comply to be granted initial and continuing eligibility to participate. Among those conditions is a prohibition on institutions providing any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment to any individual or entity engaged in recruiting or admission activities, based on their success in securing enrollments. Previous regulations included a number of activities, or “safe harbors,” that did not constitute prohibited incentive compensation. One of those safe harbors permitted an institution to provide incentive compensation for internet-based recruitment and admission activities. The Department's newly issued regulations repeal all existing safe harbors regarding incentive compensation in recruiting, though exempting “click”-based payments to third parties who provide internet generated student contact information. The new regulations also create liability for misrepresentation in advertisements, offers, and communications presented to prospective students, with associated penalties for noncompliance with these standards. In addition, these new regulations impose strict liability on educational institutions for misrepresentations made by entities, like us, who contract with the institutions to provide marketing services. As a result, our school customers have demanded and, in limited circumstances, we have acquiesced to be subject to increased limitations of liability in our contracts and, in some cases, to indemnify our customers for actions by our third-party publishers. The Department also recently issued new regulations under Title IV of the Higher Education Act providing that for-profit schools are eligible to participate in Title IV student financial aid programs only with respect to educational programs that lead to “gainful employment” in a recognized occupation. These regulations, most of which became effective July 1, 2011, require for-profit schools to provide prospective students with each eligible program's recognized occupations, cost, completion rate, job placement rate, and median loan debt of those that have completed the program, and provide that Title IV funds may not be available to students enrolled in educational programs offered by for-profit schools if those programs do not meet certain debt-to-income ratios and loan repayment metrics to be measured beginning July 1, 2012. 20Significantly all interactive marketing revenue (which makes up approximately 80 percent of total revenue included in the Enrollment Services operating segment) is generated from for-profit schools. The regulations discussed above may subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our cost of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to serve for-profit schools. In addition, these regulations could negatively impact enrollment at for-profit schools, which could adversely affect interactive marketing revenue. Effective July 1, 2010, the Reconciliation Act of 2010 prohibits new loan originations under the FFEL Program and requires that all new federal loan originations be made through the Federal Direct Loan Program. As a result of this legislation, interest income on our existing FFELP loan portfolio, as well as fee-based revenue from guarantee and third-party FFELP servicing and FFELP loan servicing software licensing and consulting fees will decline over time as our and our third-party lender clients' FFELP loan portfolios are paid down. On March 30, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Reconciliation Act of 2010. Effective July 1, 2010, this law prohibits new loan originations under the FFEL Program and requires that all new federal loan originations be made through the Federal Direct Loan Program. The new law does not alter or affect the terms and conditions of existing FFELP loans. As a result of the Reconciliation Act of 2010, we no longer originate new FFELP loans. As such, subsequent to 2010, we will no longer recognize a gain from originating and subsequently selling FFELP loans to the Department under the Department's Loan Purchase Commitment Program (the “Purchase Program”). During 2010 and 2009, we recognized pre-tax gains of $33.8 million and $36.6 million, respectively, from selling $2.1 billion of FFELP loans to the Department during each of these years under the Purchase Program. In addition, as a result of the Reconciliation Act of 2010, interest income on our existing FFELP loan portfolio, as well as fee-based revenue from guarantee and third-party FFELP servicing and FFELP loan servicing software licensing and consulting fees related to the FFEL Program, will decline over time as our and our third-party lender clients' FFELP loan portfolios are paid down. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 we recognized approximately $367 million, $377 million, and $247 million, respectively, of interest income on our FFELP loan portfolio, approximately $91 million, $101 million, and $100 million, respectively, in guarantee and third-party FFELP servicing revenue, and approximately $7 million, $8 million, and $7 million, respectively, in FFELP loan servicing software licensing and consulting fees related to the FFEL Program. If the Company is unable to grow or develop new revenue streams, the Company's consolidated revenue and operating margin will decrease as a result of the decline in FFELP loan volume outstanding.Proposed changes to the FFEL Program could have a negative effect on our earnings and operations.On February 13, 2012, President Obama released a proposed budget of the U.S. federal government for the fiscal year 2013. The budget contains certain proposals that would impact the FFEL Program, including proposals that impact FFELP student loan holders and guaranty agencies. The President's proposals are subject to review by Congress and possible changes. We cannot currently predict whether the current proposals to change the FFEL Program will ultimately be enacted, but if such changes are enacted, they could have a significant adverse impact on the amount of our revenue. Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease our net income. We are subject to federal and state income tax laws and regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. The nexus standards and the sourcing of receipts from intangible personal property and services have been the subject of state audits and litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. As the U.S. Congress and U.S. Supreme Court have not provided clear guidance in this regard, conflicting state laws and court decisions create tremendous uncertainty and expense for taxpayers conducting interstate commerce. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact our results of operations. If states enact legislation, alter apportionment methodologies, or aggressively apply the income tax nexus standards, we may become subject to additional state taxes. From time to time, we engage in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. Examples of such transactions include asset and business acquisitions and dispositions, financing transactions, apportionment, nexus standards, and income recognition. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax consequences of these transactions. We prepare and file tax returns based on the interpretation of tax laws and regulations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance, we establish reserves for tax contingencies related 21to deductions and credits that we may be unable to sustain. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts ultimately owed are recorded in the period they become known. Adjustments to our reserves could have a material effect on our financial statements. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations, or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of lawsuits, investigations, or similar matters arising out of our business operations. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. If the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for any particular period. Principal Shareholder and Related Party Transactions.Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer beneficially owns 67.9 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders and has day to day control over all matters at our Company.Michael S. Dunlap, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, beneficially owns 67.9 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders. In addition, Mr. Dunlap, Stephen F. Butterfield, our Vice Chairman, and Angela L. Muhleisen, Mr. Dunlap's sister, beneficially own stock that in the aggregate has 83.4 percent of the voting rights of our shareholders. Accordingly, each member of the Board of Directors and each member of management has been elected or effectively appointed by Mr. Dunlap and can be removed by Mr. Dunlap. As a result, Mr. Dunlap, as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and controlling shareholder, has day to day control over all matters at our Company and has the ability to take actions that benefit him and Ms. Muhleisen but may not benefit other minority shareholders, and may otherwise exercise his control in a manner with which other minority shareholders may not agree or which they may not consider to be in their best interests.We have entered into contractual arrangements with Union Bank & Trust Company (“Union Bank”). Union Bank is controlled by Farmers & Merchants Investment Inc. (“F&M”) which owns 81.4 percent of Union Bank's common stock and 15.4 percent of Union Bank's non-voting preferred stock. Michael S. Dunlap, a significant shareholder of us as well as our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, and a member of our Board of Directors, along with his spouse, owns or controls a total of 40.3 percent of the stock of F&M, while Mr. Dunlap's sister, Angela L. Muhleisen, owns or controls 38.6 percent of F&M stock. The transactions with Union Bank present conflicts of interest and pose risks to our shareholders that the terms may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated third parties.Union Bank is controlled by F&M which owns 81.4 percent of Union Bank's common stock and 15.4 percent of Union Bank's non-voting preferred stock. Michael S. Dunlap, a significant shareholder, as well as our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, and a member of our Board of Directors, owns or controls 22.1 percent of the stock of F&M, while Mr. Dunlap's spouse owns 18.1 percent of the stock of F&M, and Mr. Dunlap's sister, Angela L. Muhleisen, owns or controls 38.6 percent of F&M stock. Mr. Dunlap serves as a Director and Co-President of F&M. Ms. Muhleisen serves as Director and Co-President of F&M and as a Director, Chairperson, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank. Union Bank is deemed to have beneficial ownership of various shares of Nelnet because it serves in a capacity of trustee and has sole voting and/or investment power. As of December 31, 2011, Union Bank was deemed to beneficially own 12.2 percent of the voting rights of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, Mr. Dunlap and Ms. Muhleisen beneficially owned 67.9 percent and 13.5 percent, respectively, of the voting rights of our outstanding common stock.We have entered into certain contractual arrangements with Union Bank. These transactions include:•Loan purchases - During 2011, we purchased $0.1 million (par value) of FFELP student loans from Union Bank. No premiums were paid for these loan purchases.•Loan servicing - As of December 31, 2011, we serviced $496.3 million of loans for Union Bank. Servicing revenue earned by us from this portfolio was $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.•Funding - We maintain an agreement with Union Bank, as trustee for various grantor trusts, under which Union Bank has agreed to purchase from us participation interests in student loans (the “FFELP Participation Agreement”). We use this facility as a source to fund FFELP student loans. As of December 31, 2011, $509.2 million of loans were subject to outstanding participation interests held by Union Bank, as trustee, under this agreement. The agreement automatically renews annually and is terminable by either party upon five business days notice. This agreement provides beneficiaries 22of Union Bank's grantor trusts with access to investments in interests in student loans, while providing liquidity to us on a short term basis. We can participate loans to Union Bank to the extent of availability under the grantor trusts, up to $750 million or an amount in excess of $750 million if mutually agreed to by both parties. Loans participated under this agreement have been accounted for by us as loan sales. Accordingly, the participation interests sold are not included on our consolidated balance sheet.We have from time to time repurchased certain of our own asset-backed securities (bonds and notes payable). For accounting purposes, these notes have been effectively retired and are not included on our consolidated balance sheet. However, these securities are legally outstanding at the trust level and we could sell these notes to third parties or redeem the notes at par as cash is generated by the trust estate. During 2010, we participated a portion of these securities to Union Bank, as trustee for various grantor trusts, and obtained cash proceeds equal to the par value of the notes. We entered into a Guaranteed Purchase Agreement with Union Bank whereby we must purchase these notes back from Union Bank at par upon the request of Union Bank. As of December 31, 2010, $107.1 million of these securities were outstanding and subject to the participation agreement and were included in “bonds and notes payable” on our consolidated balance sheet. During the first quarter of 2011, we redeemed all outstanding notes under this participation.•Operating cash - The majority of our cash operating bank accounts are maintained at Union Bank. We also invest cash in the Short term Federal Investment Trust (“STFIT”) of the Student Loan Trust Division of Union Bank, which we use as operating cash accounts. As of December 31, 2011, we had $119.5 million deposited at Union Bank in operating accounts or invested in the STFIT. Interest income earned from cash deposited in these operating cash accounts for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $0.2 million.•529 Plan administration - We provide certain 529 Plan administration services to certain college savings plans (the “College Savings Plans”) through a contract with Union Bank, as the program manager. Union Bank is entitled to a fee as program manager pursuant to its program management agreement with the College Savings Plans. In 2011, we received fees of $2.3 million from Union Bank related to our administration services provided to the College Savings Plans. •Lease arrangement - Union Bank leases space in our corporate headquarters building. During 2011, Union Bank paid us approximately $73,000 for rent.•Other fees paid to Union Bank - During 2011, we paid Union Bank approximately $357,000 for administrative services, commissions, rent expense, and cash management fees.•Other fees received from Union Bank - During 2011, we received approximately $169,000 from Union Bank related to an employee sharing arrangement and for providing health and productivity services.•Investment services - In December 2010, Union Bank established various trusts whereby Union Bank serves as trustee for the purpose of purchasing, holding, and selling investments in student loan asset backed securities. Union Bank, in its individual capacity, and us, have both invested money into the trusts. As of December 31, 2011, we had $8.0 million and Union Bank had $248.5 million, respectively, invested in the trusts.Prior to May 1, 2011, we and Union Bank employed certain individuals as dual employees and such employees provided consulting and advisory services to Union Bank as trustee for these trusts, and Union Bank agreed to pay us for the share of such employees' salary and payroll based on the value of such services rendered as well as the loss of value of such dual employees' services to us. On May 9, 2011, one of our subsidiaries entered into a management agreement with Union Bank, effective as of May 1, 2011, under which the subsidiary performs various advisory and management services on behalf of Union Bank with respect to investments in securities by the trusts, including identifying securities for purchase or sale by the trusts. The agreement provides that Union Bank will pay to the subsidiary annual fees of 25 basis points on the outstanding balance of the investments in the trusts. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of investments in the trusts was $394.2 million. In addition, Union Bank will pay additional fees to the subsidiary of 50 percent of the gains from the sale of securities from the trusts. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized $5.1 million of fee revenue related to this agreement. •Defined contribution plan - Union Bank administers our 401(k) defined contribution plan. Fees paid to Union Bank to administer the plan, approximately $270,000 in 2011, are paid by the plan's participants.•Letter of credit - Union Bank has issued a $25,000 letter of credit for our benefit. Union Bank charged no fee for providing this service.23The net aggregate impact on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 related to the transactions with Union Bank as described above was income of approximately $4.3 million, $8.2 million, and $6.9 million, respectively. See note 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K for additional information related to the transactions between us and Union Bank.Transactions between Union Bank and us are generally based on available market information for comparable assets, products, and services and are extensively negotiated. In addition, all related party transactions between Union Bank and us are approved by both the Union Bank Board of Directors and our Board of Directors. Furthermore, Union Bank is subject to regulatory oversight and review by the FDIC, the Federal Reserve, and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance. The FDIC and the State of Nebraska Department of Banking and Finance regularly review Union Bank's transactions with affiliates. The regulatory standard applied to the bank falls under Regulation W, which places restrictions on certain “covered” transactions with affiliates. We intend to maintain our relationship with Union Bank, which our management believes provides certain benefits to us. Those benefits include Union Bank's knowledge of and experience in the FFELP industry, its willingness to provide services, and at times liquidity and capital resources on an expedient basis, and the proximity of Union Bank to our corporate headquarters located in Lincoln, Nebraska.The majority of the transactions and arrangements with Union Bank are not offered to unrelated third parties or subject to competitive bids. Accordingly, these transactions and arrangements not only present conflicts of interest, but also pose the risk to our shareholders that the terms of such transactions and arrangements may not be as favorable to us as we could receive from unrelated third parties. Moreover, we may have and/or may enter into contracts and business transactions with related parties that benefit Mr. Dunlap and his sister, as well as other related parties, that may not benefit us and/or our minority shareholders.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSThe Company has no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.