ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors section highlights specific risks that could affect the Company. Although this section attempts to highlight key risk factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and the Company cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect the financial performance of the Company. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this Report. For convenience of reference, the sub-captions which briefly describe these risk factors are listed immediately below, followed by the discussion of each risk factor. · The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of the Company’s assets do not match the interest rate characteristics of the funding for the assets. · The Company is exposed to interest rate risk because of the interest rate characteristics of certain of its assets and the interest rate characteristics of the related funding of such assets. · Characteristics unique to certain asset-backed securitizations, namely auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes, may negatively affect the Company’s earnings. · The Company’s derivative instruments may not be successful in managing interest and foreign currency exchange rate risks, which may negatively impact the Company’s operations. · Higher rates of prepayments of student loans, including consolidations by third parties or the Department of Education through the Direct Loan Program, could reduce the Company’s profits. · The costs and effects of litigation, investigations, or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. · Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease the Company’s net income. · Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, and incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements could materially affect the reported amounts of asset and liabilities, the reported amounts of income and expenses, and related disclosures. · Security and privacy breaches in systems or system failures may damage client relations and the Company’s reputation. · Changes in student lending legislation and regulations or the elimination of the FFEL Program by the Federal Government could have a negative impact upon the Company’s business and may affect its earnings and operations. · Federal and state regulations can restrict the Company’s business and noncompliance with these regulations could result in penalties, litigation, and reputation damage. · A failure to properly manage operations and growth could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new business opportunities. · The Company and its operating segments are highly dependent upon information technology systems and infrastructure. · The Company faces liquidity and funding risk to meet its financial obligations. · The ratings of the Company or of any securities issued by the Company may change, which may increase the Company’s costs of capital and may reduce the liquidity of the Company’s securities. · There are risks inherent in owning the Company’s common stock. · Changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain products or businesses and asset impairment, including goodwill. · The Company faces counterparty risk. 14 · The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risk and such risk could lead to increased costs. · Managing assets for third parties has inherent risks that, if not properly managed, could negatively affect the Company’s business. · The Company must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of its federally insured loans, and the Company may incur penalties or lose its guarantees if it fails to meet these requirements. · Future losses due to defaults on loans held by the Company, or loans sold to third parties which the Company is obligated to repurchase in the event of certain delinquencies, present credit risk which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. · A failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel, skilled management, and qualified subcontractors may have an adverse impact on the Company’s future growth. · The Company’s government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits, and investigations, and, if terminated, could negatively impact the Company’s reputation and reduce its ability to compete for new contracts. · The Company may face operational and security risks from its reliance on vendors to complete specific business operations. · The markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, which could affect revenue and profit margins. · Transactions with affiliates and potential conflicts of interest of certain of the Company’s officers and directors, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, pose risks to the Company’s shareholders that the Company may not enter into transactions on the same terms that the Company could receive from unrelated third-parties. · The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns a substantial percentage of the Company’s Class A and Class B common stock and is able to control all matters subject to a shareholder vote. · Negative publicity could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its operating segments and their financial results. · A continued economic recession could reduce demand for Company products and services and lead to lower revenue and earnings. · The Company may not be able to successfully protect its intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of the Company’s assets do not match the interest rate characteristics of the funding for the assets. The Company issues asset-backed securities, the vast majority being variable rate, to fund its student loan assets. The variable rate debt is generally indexed to 3-month LIBOR, set by auction, or through a remarketing process. The income generated by the Company’s student loan assets is generally driven by short term indices (treasury bills and commercial paper) that are different from those which affect the Company’s liabilities (generally LIBOR), which creates basis risk. Moreover, the Company faces repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on its liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as every quarter, and the timing of the interest rate resets on its assets, which generally occurs daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause the Company’s student loan spread to compress, while in a rising rate environment, it may cause the spread to increase. By using different index types and different index reset frequencies to fund assets, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which, as noted above, is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies, or will not move in the same direction or with the same magnitude. While these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a longer period of time, at points in recent history, they have been volatile and less correlated. There can be no assurance the indices will maintain a high level of correlation in the future due to capital market dislocations or other factors not within the Company’s control. In such circumstances, the Company’s earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. The Company has used derivative instruments to hedge the repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on its assets and liabilities. However, the Company does not generally hedge the basis risk due to the different interest rate indices associated with its liabilities and the majority of its assets since the derivatives needed to hedge this risk are generally illiquid or non-existent and the relationship between the indices for most of the Company’s assets and liabilities has been highly correlated over a long period of time. Any spread widening could have a significant impact on the net spread of the Company’s student loan portfolio. 15 The Company is exposed to interest rate risk because of the interest rate characteristics of certain of its assets and the interest rate characteristics of the related funding of such assets. Loans originated prior to April 1, 2006 generally earn interest at the higher of a floating rate based on the Special Allowance Payment or SAP formula set by the Department and the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time. The Company generally finances its student loan portfolio with variable rate debt. In low and/or declining interest rate environments, when the fixed borrower rate is higher than the rate produced by the SAP formula, the Company’s student loans earn at a fixed rate while the interest on the variable rate debt typically continues to decline. In these interest rate environments, the Company may earn additional spread income that it refers to as floor income. Depending on the type of loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to an annual rate each July 1. As a result, for loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, the Company may earn floor income for an extended period of time, which the Company refers to as fixed rate floor income, and for those loans where the borrower rate is reset annually on July 1, the Company may earn floor income to the next reset date, which the Company refers to as variable rate floor income. In accordance with legislation enacted in 2006, lenders are required to rebate fixed rate floor income and variable rate floor income to the Department for all new FFELP loans first originated on or after April 1, 2006. Absent the use of derivative instruments and ignoring potential repricing benefits associated with the mismatch between the reset of the loan assets and debt securities, a rise in interest rates may reduce the amount of floor income received and this may have an impact on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increasing financing costs, until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with their special allowance payment formulas. In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed rate loans effectively convert to variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced. Characteristics unique to certain asset-backed securitizations, namely auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes, may negatively affect the Company’s earnings. The interest rates on certain of the Company’s asset-backed securities are set and periodically reset via a “dutch auction” (“Auction Rate Securities”) or through remarketing utilizing remarketing agents (“Variable Rate Demand Notes”). For Auction Rate Securities, investors and potential investors submit orders through a broker-dealer as to the principal amount of notes they wish to buy, hold, or sell at various interest rates. The broker-dealers submit their clients’ orders to the auction agent, who then determines the clearing interest rate for the upcoming period. Interest rates on these Auction Rate Securities are reset periodically, generally every 7 to 35 days, by the auction agent or agents. Beginning in the first quarter of 2008, as part of the ongoing credit market crisis, auction rate securities from various issuers have failed to receive sufficient order interest from potential investors to clear successfully, resulting in failed auction status. Since February 2008, the Company’s Auction Rate Securities have failed in this manner. Under historical conditions, the broker-dealers would purchase these securities if investor demand is weak. However, since February 2008, the broker-dealers have been allowing auctions to fail. Currently, all of the Company’s Auction Rate Securities are in a failed auction status and the Company believes they will remain in a failed auction status for an extended period of time and possibly permanently. As a result of a failed auction, the Auction Rate Securities will generally pay interest to the holder at a maximum rate as defined by the indenture. While these rates will vary by class of security, they will generally be based on a spread to LIBOR, commercial paper, or treasury securities. These maximum rates are subject to increase if the credit ratings on the bonds are downgraded. The Company cannot predict whether future auctions related to its Auction Rate Securities will be successful. The Company is currently seeking alternatives for reducing its exposure to the auction rate market, but may not be able to achieve alternate financing for some of its Auction Rate Securities. If there is no demand for the Company’s Auction Rate Securities, the Company could be subject to interest costs substantially above the anticipated and historical rates paid on these types of securities. For Variable Rate Demand Notes, the remarketing agents set the price, which is then offered to investors. If there are insufficient potential bid orders to purchase all of the notes offered for sale, the Company could be subject to interest costs substantially above the anticipated and historical rates paid on these types of securities. 16 The Company’s derivative instruments may not be successful in managing interest and foreign currency exchange rate risks, which may negatively impact the Company’s operations. When the Company utilizes derivative instruments, it utilizes them to manage interest and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity. The Company’s derivative instruments are intended as economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting; consequently, the change in fair value, called the “mark-to-market”, of these derivative instruments is included in the Company’s operating results. Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates can and have significantly impacted the valuation of the Company’s derivatives. Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates will impact the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company. Further, the Company may incur costs or be subject to bid/ask spreads if the Company terminates a derivative instrument. The derivative instruments used by the Company are typically in the form of interest rate swaps, basis swaps, and cross-currency interest rate swaps. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate the Company from risks associated with such fluctuations. Although the Company believes its derivative instruments are highly effective, because many of its derivatives are not balance guaranteed to a particular pool of student loans, the Company is subject to prepayment risk that could result in the Company being under or over hedged, which could result in material losses to the Company. In addition, the Company’s interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk management activities could expose the Company to substantial mark-to-market losses if interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates move materially different from the environment when the derivatives were entered into. As a result, the Company cannot offer any assurance that its economic hedging activities will effectively manage its interest and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity, nor have the desired beneficial impact on its results of operations or financial condition. Higher rates of prepayments of student loans, including consolidations by third parties or the Department of Education through the Direct Loan Program, could reduce the Company’s profits. Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty. Prepayments may result from consolidating student loans, which historically tends to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments, from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment, and from voluntary full or partial prepayments, among other things. High prepayment rates will have the most impact on the Company’s asset-backed securitization transactions, since those securities are priced according to the expected average lives of the underlying loans. The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates and the availability of alternative financing. The Company’s profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which may reduce the amount of net interest income the Company receives. The Company’s portfolio of federally insured loans is subject to refinancing through the use of consolidation loans, which are expressly permitted by the Higher Education Act and the Direct Loan Program. As a result, the Company may lose student loans in its portfolio that are consolidated by the Direct Loan Program or, if market conditions were to improve, competing FFELP lenders. Increased consolidations of student loans by the Company’s competitors or by the Direct Loan Program may result in a negative return on loans, when considering the origination costs or acquisition premiums paid with respect to these loans. Moreover, it may result in a reduction in net interest income. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations, or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company may be involved from time to time in a variety of lawsuits, investigations, or similar matters arising out of business operations. The Company’s insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against the Company, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm the Company’s reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, and may not be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. The outcome of legal proceedings may differ from the Company’s expectations because the resolution of such matters is often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or to make estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments, or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in any particular period. For further information, see Part I Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” 17 Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease the Company’s net income. A corporation is considered to be a “personal holding company” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), if (1) at least 60% of its adjusted ordinary gross income is “personal holding company income” (generally, passive income) and (2) at any time during the last half of the taxable year more than half, by value, of its stock is owned by five or fewer individuals, as determined under attribution rules of the Code. If both of these tests are met, a personal holding company is subject to an additional tax on its undistributed personal holding company income, currently at a 15% rate. Five or fewer individuals hold more than half the value of the Company’s stock. In June 2003, the Company submitted a request for a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service seeking a determination that its federally guaranteed student loans qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code. Such a determination would have assured the Company that holding such loans does not make it a personal holding company. Based on its historical practice of not issuing private letter rulings concerning matters that it considers to be primarily factual, however, the Internal Revenue Service has indicated that it will not issue the requested ruling, taking no position on the merits of the legal issue. So long as more than half of the Company’s value continues to be held by five or fewer individuals, if it were to be determined that some portion of its federally guaranteed student loans does not qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code, the Company could become subject to personal holding company tax on its undistributed personal holding company income. The Company continues to believe that neither Nelnet, Inc. nor any of its subsidiaries is a personal holding company. However, even if Nelnet, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries was determined to be a personal holding company, the Company believes that by utilizing intercompany distributions, it could eliminate or substantially eliminate its exposure to personal holding company taxes, although it cannot assure that this will be the case. The Company is subject to federal and state income tax laws and regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. The nexus standards and the sourcing of receipts from intangible personal property and services have been the subject of state audits and litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. As the U.S. Congress and U.S. Supreme Court have not provided clear guidance in this regard, conflicting state laws and court decisions create tremendous uncertainty and expense for taxpayers conducting interstate commerce. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. If states enact legislation, alter apportionment methodologies, or aggressively apply the income tax nexus standards, the Company may become subject to additional state taxes. From time to time, the Company engages in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. Examples of such transactions include asset and business acquisitions and dispositions, financing transactions, apportionment, nexus standards, and income recognition. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax consequences of these transactions. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on the interpretation of tax laws and regulations. In the normal course of business, the Company’s tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance, the Company establishes reserves for tax contingencies related to deductions and credits that it may be unable to sustain. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts ultimately owed are recorded in the period they become known. Adjustments to the Company’s reserves could have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, and incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements could materially affect the reported amounts of asset and liabilities, the reported amounts of income and expenses, and related disclosures. The Company’s accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Several of the Company’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB and/or the SEC) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond the Company’s control, can be hard to predict, and could materially impact how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case resulting in the Company potentially restating prior period financial statements that could potentially be material. 18 Security and privacy breaches in systems or system failures may damage client relations and the Company’s reputation. The uninterrupted operation of processing systems and the confidentiality of the customer information is critical to the Company’s business. The Company has security, backup, recovery systems, business continuity, and incident response plans in place. Additionally, several of the Company’s operating segments must comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards and National Institute of Standards in Technology security controls. Any failures in security, privacy, or a disruption in service could have a material adverse effect on customer contracts and the Company’s reputation and financial results. While the Company believes applications it uses are proven and designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that these applications will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to interrupt service or breach systems in order to gain access to confidential client information or intellectual property or assurance that these applications will be sufficient to address the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers. Changes in student lending legislation and regulations or the elimination of the FFEL Program by the Federal Government could have a negative impact upon the Company’s business and may affect its earnings and operations. Funds for payment of interest subsidy payments, special allowance payments, and other payments under the FFEL Program are subject to annual budgetary appropriations by Congress. Federal budget legislation has in the past contained provisions that restricted payments made under the FFEL Program to achieve reductions in federal spending. Future federal budget legislation may adversely affect expenditures by the Department and the financial condition of the Company. The enactment of the College Cost Reduction Act in September 2007 resulted in a reduction in the yields on student loans and, accordingly, a reduction in the amount of the premium the Company could pay lenders under its forward flow commitments and branding partner arrangements. The Company can give no assurance that it will be successful in renegotiating or renewing, on economically reasonable terms, its branding and forward flow agreements once those agreements expire. Loss of a strong branding or forward flow partner, or relationships with schools from which a significant volume of student loans is directly or indirectly acquired, could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s business. On August 14, 2008, the Higher Education Opportunity Act (“HEOA”) was enacted into law and effectively reauthorized the FFEL Program through 2014, with authorization to make FFELP loans through 2018 to borrowers with existing loans. Federal regulations implementing certain requirements of this law became effective in February 2010. This law and the accompanying regulations may affect the Company’s profitability by increasing costs as a result of required changes to the Company’s operations. Provisions in the HEOA include, but are not limited to, the following: · School code of conduct requirements applicable to FFELP and private education loan lending · Disclosure and reporting requirements for lenders and schools participating in preferred lender arrangements · Enumerated permissible and prohibited inducement activities by FFELP lenders, private education lenders, and FFELP guaranty agencies · Additional loan origination and repayment disclosures that FFELP and private education lenders must provide to borrowers · Additional FFELP loan servicing requirements Furthermore, Congressional amendments to the Higher Education Act, or other relevant federal laws, and rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Education, may adversely impact holders and originators of FFELP loans. For example, changes could be made to the rate of interest or special allowance payments paid on FFELP loans, the level of insurance provided by guaranty agencies, the fees assessed to FFEL Program lenders, or the servicing requirements for FFELP loans. In addition to changes to the Higher Education Act and FFEL Program, various state laws and regulations targeted at student lending companies have been enacted. These laws placed additional restrictions on lending and business practices between schools and lenders of FFELP and private education loans and required changes to the Company’s business practices and operations. As with possible actions in the future by Congress and the Secretary of Education at the federal level, state legislatures may enact laws and state agencies may institute rules or take actions which adversely impact holders of FFELP or private education loans. The Company has also entered into separate agreements with the Nebraska and New York State Attorneys General in relation to its student lending activities. The Company pledges full disclosure and transparency in its marketing, origination, and servicing of education loans. Failure to meet the terms and conditions of an agreement could subject the Company to legal action by the respective Attorney General. The impact of the legislative changes and federal and state investigations, coupled with financial market disruption has caused the Company and other FFELP lenders to re-evaluate the markets in which they originate loans and the value of the FFEL Program loan assets they hold. 19 On September 17, 2009, SAFRA was passed by the House of Representatives. This bill prohibits the disbursement, making, or insuring on or after July 1, 2010 of any new FFEL Program loans. If SAFRA becomes law, new student loan originations would be funded through the Direct Loan Program and loan servicing would be provided by private sector companies through performance-based contracts with the Department. The Senate has not yet proposed its own version of a student loan reform bill. In addition to the House-passed legislation, there are several other proposals for changes to the education financing framework that may be considered that would maintain a role for private lenders in the origination of federal student loans. These include a possible extension of ECASLA, which expires on July 1, 2010, and the Student Loan Community Proposal, a proposal endorsed by a cross-section of FFELP service providers (including the Company) as an alternative to the 100% federal direct lending proposal included in SAFRA. The Company cannot currently predict whether this or any other proposals to eliminate the FFEL Program will ultimately be enacted. Elimination of the FFEL Program would significantly impact the Company’s operations and profitability by, among other things, reducing the Company’s interest revenues as a result of the inability to add new FFELP loans to the Company’s portfolio and reducing guarantee fees as a result of reduced FFELP loan servicing and origination volume. Additionally, the elimination of the FFEL Program would reduce education loan software licensing opportunities and related consulting fees received from lenders using the Company’s software products and services. In addition, without an extension of ECASLA, the Company’s ability to fund federal student loan originations would be limited. Federal and state regulations can restrict the Company’s business and noncompliance with these regulations could result in penalties, litigation, and reputation damage. The Company, its operating segments, and commercial customers are heavily regulated by federal and state governments and regulatory agencies. This regulation and legislation is proposed or enacted to protect consumers and the financial industry as a whole, not necessarily the Company and its stockholders. Consequently, this regulation and legislation can significantly alter the regulatory environment, limit business operations, increase costs of doing business, and could lead to the Company being fined or penalized if the Company is found to be out of compliance. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) limits the types of non-audit services the Company’s outside auditors may provide to the Company in order to preserve their independence. If the Company’s auditors were found not to be “independent” under SEC rules, the Company could be required to engage new auditors and file new financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. The Company could be out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial statements and audit reports were filed, limiting the Company’s ability to raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences. Sarbanes-Oxley also requires the Company’s management to evaluate the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and requires auditors to issue a report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The Company is required to disclose, in its annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, the existence of any “material weaknesses” in its internal controls. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year, nor can the Company predict the effect on its stock price of disclosure of a material weakness. The Patriot Act, which was enacted in the wake of the September 2001 terrorist attacks, requires the Company and its financial customers to implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. Complying with this regulation could increase operating costs and restrict business operations. Historically, the Company’s principal business has been comprised of originating, acquiring, holding, and servicing student loans made and guaranteed pursuant to the FFEL Program. The Higher Education Act generally prohibits a lender from providing certain inducements to educational institutions or individuals in order to secure applicants for FFELP loans. In addition, under contract with the Department, the Company services loans pursuant to the FFEL, Federal Direct Loan, Federal Perkins Loan, and TEACH Grant programs. The Higher Education Act created these programs and governs many aspects of the Company’s operations. The Company is also subject to rules of the agencies that act as guarantors of the student loans, known as guaranty agencies. The Company has structured its relationships and product offerings in a manner intended to comply with the Higher Education Act, supporting regulations, and the available communications and guidance from the Department. Failure to comply, irrespective of the reason, could subject the Company to loss of the federal guaranty on federally insured loans, costs of curing servicing deficiencies or remedial servicing, suspension or termination of the Company’s right to participate in the FFEL Program or to participate as a servicer, negative publicity, and potential legal claims or actions brought by the Company’s servicing customers and borrowers. If the Department were to change its position on any of these matters, the Company may have to change the way it markets products and services and a new marketing strategy may not be as effective. If the Company fails to respond to the Department’s change in position, the Department could potentially impose sanctions upon the Company that could negatively impact the Company’s business. In addition, the Company is subject to certain federal and state banking laws, regulations, and examinations, as well as federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including, without limitation, laws and regulations governing privacy protection, information security, restrictions on access to customer information, and, specifically with respect to the Company’s non-federally insured loan portfolio, certain state usury laws and related regulations and the Federal Truth in Lending Act. All or most of these laws and regulations impose substantial requirements upon lenders and servicers involved in consumer finance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in liability for the Company as a result of the imposition of civil penalties and potential class action law suits. 20 The Company is subject to federal and state credit card industry laws, regulations, association rules, or industry standards. Changes to statutes, regulations, or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations, or standards, could increase the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted or whether any credit card association rule or other industry standard will change, and if enacted or changed, the effect that it would have on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. These changes may require the Company to incur significant expenses to redevelop products. Also, failure to comply with laws, rules, and regulations or standards could result in fines, sanctions, or other penalties, which could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s reputation, financial position, and operating results. Laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, lead generations, school recruitment, privacy, commerce, and advertising are becoming more prevalent. These regulations could increase the costs of conducting business on the Internet and could decrease demand for the Company’s interactive marketing and subscription services. The Company maintains systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal and regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance were in place at the time of noncompliance. Therefore, the establishment and maintenance of systems and procedures reasonably designed to ensure compliance cannot guarantee fines or penalties will be avoided. There may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain activities or reputation damage. A failure to properly manage operations and growth could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new business opportunities. While recently the Company has focused on managing costs and expenses, over the long term, the Company intends to add personnel and other resources to meet the requirements of customer contracts and expand products and services into new and existing markets. The Company is likely to recognize costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than is expected. If the anticipated benefits of these investments are delayed or are not realized, operating results may be adversely affected. In order to manage growth effectively, the Company must design, develop, implement and improve operational systems, which may include the design, development, and implementation of software and timely development and implementation of procedures and controls. If the Company fails to design, develop, and implement and improve systems, it may not be able to maintain required customer service levels, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business opportunities, complete future acquisitions or operate its businesses effectively. Failure to properly transition new clients to systems, properly budget transition costs, or accurately estimate new contract operational costs, could result in delays in contract performance, impair long-lived assets, or result in contracts with profit margins which do not meet Company or market expectations. Additionally, the Company’s success depends on its ability to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to continuing changes in technology, industry developments, and client needs. The Company may not successfully anticipate or respond to these developments in a timely manner, and offerings may not be successful in the marketplace. Also, services, solutions, and technologies offered by current or future competitors may make Company services or solutions uncompetitive or obsolete. As a result of any of these complications associated with expansion, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. The Company and its operating segments are highly dependent upon information technology systems and infrastructure. The success of the Company depends, in part, on the ability to successfully and cost-effectively improve its system infrastructure and deliver products and services to customers. The widespread adoption of new technologies and market demands could require substantial expenditures to enhance system infrastructure and existing products and services. If the Company fails to enhance its system infrastructure or products and services, its operating segments may lose their competitive advantage and this could adversely affect financial and operating results. Additionally, the Company faces the risk of business disruption if failures in its information systems occur as a result of changes in infrastructure, relocation of infrastructure, or failure to perform required services, which could have a material impact upon its business and operations. The Company regularly backs up its data and maintains detailed disaster recovery plans. A major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to information systems could adversely affect the Company’s business. Additionally, loss of information systems for a sustained period of time could have a negative impact on the Company’s performance and ultimately on cash flow in the event the Company were unable to process transactions and/or provide services to customers. 21 The Company faces liquidity and funding risk to meet its financial obligations. Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that the Company will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or other financing alternatives, or difficulty in raising financing needed for its assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. The recent unprecedented disruptions in the credit and financial markets and the general economic crisis have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the cost and availability of financing for the Company’s student loan portfolios and, as a result, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. Such adverse conditions may continue or worsen in the future. The Company’s primary funding needs are those required to finance new student loan originations and acquisitions and satisfy certain debt obligations, specifically its unsecured senior notes and unsecured line of credit. In general, the amount, type, and cost of the Company’s funding, including securitizations and unsecured financing from the capital markets and borrowings from financial institutions, have a direct impact on the Company’s operating expenses and financial results and can limit the Company’s ability to increase its student loan assets. The Company relies upon secured financing vehicles as its most significant source of funding for student loans. The Company’s primary secured financing vehicles are loan warehouse facilities and asset-backed securitizations. Historically, the Company funded new loan originations using loan warehouse facilities and asset-backed securitizations. Student loan warehousing has historically allowed the Company to buy and manage student loans prior to transferring them into more permanent financing arrangements. In August 2008, the Company began funding FFELP Stafford and PLUS student loan originations for the 2008-2009 academic year through the Department’s Participation and Purchase Programs pursuant to the ECASLA. Under the Department’s Purchase Program, the Department purchases loans at a price equal to the sum of (i) par value, (ii) accrued interest, (iii) the one percent origination fee paid to the Department, and (iv) a fixed amount of $75 per loan. Under the Participation Program, the Department provides interim short term liquidity to FFELP lenders by purchasing participation interests in pools of FFELP loans. FFELP lenders are charged a rate of commercial paper plus 50 basis points on the principal amount of participation interests outstanding. Loans funded under the Participation Program for the 2008-2009 academic year were required to be either refinanced by the lender or sold to the Department pursuant to the Purchase Program prior to its expiration on October 15, 2009. To be eligible for purchase or participation under the Department’s programs, loans were originally limited to FFELP Stafford or PLUS loans made for the academic year 2008-2009, first disbursed between May 1, 2008 and July 1, 2009, with eligible borrower benefits. On October 7, 2008, legislation was enacted to extend the Department’s authority to finance and acquire FFELP student loans made for the 2009-2010 academic year by extending the Participation and Purchase Programs from September 30, 2009 to September 30, 2010. The Department indicated that loans for the 2008-2009 academic year which were funded under the Department’s Participation Program had to be refinanced or sold to the Department prior to October 15, 2009. On November 8, 2008, the Department announced the replication of the terms of the Participation and Purchase Programs, in accordance with the October 7th legislation, to include FFELP student loans made for the 2009-2010 academic year. Loans for the 2009-2010 academic year must be refinanced or sold to the Department prior to October 15, 2010. With respect to the origination of new FFELP student loans for the 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 academic years, the Company has utilized the Department’s Participation and Purchase Programs. On August 3, 2009, the Company entered into a FFELP warehouse facility (the “2009 FFELP Warehouse Facility”). The 2009 FFELP Warehouse Facility has a maximum financing amount of $500.0 million, with a revolving financing structure supported by 364-day liquidity provisions, which expire on August 2, 2010. The final maturity date of the facility is August 3, 2012. In the event the Company is unable to renew the liquidity provisions by August 2, 2010, the facility would become a term facility at a stepped-up cost, with no additional student loans being eligible for financing, and the Company would be required to refinance the existing loans in the facility by August 3, 2012. The 2009 FFELP Warehouse Facility provides for formula based advance rates depending on FFELP loan type, up to a maximum of 92 percent to 98 percent of the principal and interest of loans financed. The advance rates for collateral may increase or decrease based on market conditions. The facility contains financial covenants relating to levels of the Company’s consolidated net worth, ratio of adjusted EBITDA to corporate debt interest, and unencumbered cash. Any violation of these covenants could result in a requirement for the immediate repayment of any outstanding borrowings under the facility. Unlike the Company’s prior FFELP warehouse facility, the new facility does not require the Company to refinance or remove a percentage of the pledged student loan collateral on an annual basis. Continued disruptions in the credit and financial markets may cause additional volatility in the loan valuation formula under the warehouse facility and a decline in advance rates may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity position. 22 In January 2009, the Department published summary terms for its program under which it will finance eligible FFELP Stafford and PLUS loans in a conduit vehicle established to provide funding for student lenders (the “Conduit Program”). Loans eligible for the Conduit Program had to be first disbursed on or after October 1, 2003, but not later than June 30, 2009, and fully disbursed before September 30, 2009, and meet certain other requirements. The Conduit Program was launched on May 11, 2009. Funding for the Conduit Program is provided by the capital markets at a cost based on market rates, with the Company being advanced 97 percent of the student loan face amount. Excess amounts needed to fund the remaining 3 percent of the student loan balances are contributed by the Company. The Conduit Program has a term of five years and expires on May 8, 2014. The Student Loan Short-Term Notes (“Student Loan Notes”) issued by the Conduit Program are supported by a combination of (i) notes backed by FFELP loans, (ii) a liquidity agreement with the Federal Financing Bank, and (iii) a put agreement provided by the Department. If the conduit does not have sufficient funds to pay all Student Loan Notes, then those Student Loan Notes will be repaid with funds from the Federal Financing Bank. The Federal Financing Bank will hold the notes for a short period of time and, if at the end of that time, the Student Loan Notes still cannot be paid off, the underlying FFELP loans that serve as collateral to the Conduit Program will be sold to the Department through the Put Agreement at a price of 97 percent of the face amount of the loans. The Company has a $750.0 million unsecured line of credit that terminates in May 2012. Upon termination in 2012, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain this line of credit, find alternative funding, or increase the amount outstanding under the line, if necessary. The line of credit agreement contains certain financial covenants that, if not met, lead to an event of default under the agreement. The covenants include maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth, minimum adjusted EBITDA to corporate debt interest (over the last four rolling quarters), limitation on subsidiary indebtedness, and limitation on the percentage of non-guaranteed loans in the Company’s portfolio. A default on the 2009 FFELP Warehouse Facility would result in an event of default on the Company’s unsecured line of credit that would result in the outstanding balance on the line becoming immediately due and payable. If the Company is unable to obtain cost-effective and stable funding alternatives, its funding capabilities and liquidity would be negatively impacted and its cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company’s ability to originate and acquire student loans would be limited or could be eliminated. The ratings of the Company or of any securities issued by the Company may change, which may increase the Company’s costs of capital and may reduce the liquidity of the Company’s securities. Ratings are based primarily on the creditworthiness of the Company, the underlying assets of asset-backed securitizations, the amount of credit enhancement in any given transaction, and the legal structure of any given transaction. Ratings are not a recommendation to purchase, hold, or sell any of the Company’s securities inasmuch as the ratings do not address the market price or suitability for investors. There is no assurance that ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that current ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn by any rating agency. Ratings for the Company or any of its securities may be increased, lowered, or withdrawn by any rating agency if, in the rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. If the Company’s credit ratings are lowered or withdrawn, the Company may experience an increase in the interest rate paid on the Company’s unsecured line of credit or the interest rates or other costs associated with other capital raising activities by the Company, which may negatively affect the Company’s operations. Moreover, if the unsecured ratings of the Company are lowered or withdrawn, it may affect the terms of the Company’s outstanding derivative contracts and could result in requirements for the Company to post additional collateral under those contracts. Additionally, a lowered or withdrawn credit rating may negatively affect the liquidity of the Company’s securities. There are risks inherent in owning the Company’s common stock. From January 1, 2009 to March 1, 2010, the closing daily sales price of the Company’s Class A common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $4.25 per share to a high of $17.78 per share. The Company expects the Class A common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond the Company’s control. These factors include: · Changes in interest rates and credit market conditions affecting the cost and availability of financing for the Company’s student loan assets · Changes in the education financing regulatory framework · Changes in the education financing or other products and services that the Company offers · Variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results · Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts · Changes in market valuations of comparable companies · Changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends In December 2009, Company announced that it was reinstating its quarterly dividend payments of $0.07 per share on its Class A and Class B common stock. The Company will continue to evaluate its dividend policy, but the payment of future dividends remains in the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and will continue to depend on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors. In addition, the payment of dividends is subject to the terms of the Company’s outstanding junior subordinated hybrid securities, which generally provide that if the Company defers interest payments on those securities it cannot pay dividends on its capital stock. 23 The Company may not meet the expectations of shareholders and/or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock could decline as a result. Changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain products or businesses and asset impairment, including goodwill. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, the Company may be required to strategically realign its resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or impairments of intangible assets. Estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of the carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Additionally, the Company is required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings. The Company faces counterparty risk. The Company has exposure to the financial condition of its various lending, investment, and derivative counterparties. If any of the Company’s counterparties is unable to perform its obligations, the Company would, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. The lending commitment for the Company’s unsecured line of credit is provided by a total of thirteen banks, with no individual bank representing more than 11% of the total lending commitment. The bank lending group includes Lehman Brothers Bank (“Lehman”), a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which represents approximately 7% of the lending commitment under the line of credit. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The Company does not expect Lehman to fund future borrowing requests. As a source of liquidity for funding new FFELP student loan originations, the Company maintains a participation agreement with the related party Union Bank and Trust Company ("Union Bank"), as trustee for various grantor trusts, under which Union Bank has agreed to purchase from the Company participation interests in student loans. The Company currently participates loans to Union Bank to the extent of availability under the grantor trusts. In the event that Union Bank experiences adverse changes to its financial condition, such participation agreement liquidity may not be available to the Company in the future. The restricted cash in many of the Company’s asset backed securitizations is invested in guaranteed investment contracts (“GICs”), These GICs are primarily with three financial institutions, although the Company’s risk is concentrated with one institution which is the provider of approximately 85% of the Company’s investment contracts. All of the institutions are currently at least A rated. These agreements may be terminated by the Company if the GIC providers’ unsecured credit rating falls below a certain threshold. A default by the counterparties under the GICs could lead to a loss of the Company’s investment and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Related to derivative exposure, the Company may not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment. If the Company was not able to replace the derivative position, the Company would be exposed to a greater level of interest rate and/or foreign currency exchange rate risk which could lead to additional losses. When the mark-to-market value of a derivative instrument is negative, the Company owes the counterparty and, therefore, has no immediate counterparty risk. Additionally, if the negative mark-to-market value of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, the Company may have to make a collateral deposit with the counterparty. The threshold at which the Company posts collateral may depend on the Company’s unsecured credit rating. If interest and foreign currency exchange rates move materially, the Company could be required to deposit a significant amount of collateral with its derivative instrument counterparties. The collateral deposits, if significant, could negatively impact the Company’s capital resources. When the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, this generally indicates that the counterparty owes the Company. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk with such counterparty is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative less any collateral held by the Company. The Company attempts to manage market and credit risks associated with interest and foreign currency exchange rates by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken, and by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by the Company’s risk committee. The Company also has a policy requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Master Agreement. 24 The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risk and such risk could lead to increased costs. As a result of the Company’s offerings in Euro-denominated notes, the Company is exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro. The principal and accrued interest on these notes is re-measured at each reporting period and recorded on the Company’s balance sheet in U.S. dollars based on the foreign currency exchange rate on that date. When foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro change significantly, earnings may fluctuate significantly. The Company entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps that hedge these risks but, as discussed previously, such swaps may not always be effective. Managing assets for third parties has inherent risks that, if not properly managed, could negatively affect the Company’s business. The Company manages loan portfolios and transfers funds for third party customers. A compromise of security surrounding loan portfolio and cash management processes or mismanagement of customer assets could lead to litigation, fraud, reputation damage, and unanticipated operating costs that could affect the Company’s overall business. The Company must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of its federally insured loans, and the Company may incur penalties or lose its guarantees if it fails to meet these requirements. The Company must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guaranty on its federally insured loans. These requirements include establishing servicing requirements and procedural guidelines and specify school and loan eligibility criteria. The federal guaranty on the Company’s federally insured loans is conditional based on the Company’s compliance with origination, servicing, and collection policies set by the Department and guaranty agencies. Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department’s and guaranty agency regulations may risk partial or complete loss of the guaranty. If the Company experiences a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another, errors in the loan origination process, establishment of the borrower’s repayment status, and due diligence or claim filing processes), it could result in the loan guarantee being revoked or denied. In most cases the Company has the opportunity to cure these deficiencies by following a prescribed cure process which usually involves obtaining the borrower’s reaffirmation of the debt. The lender becomes ineligible for special allowance interest benefits from the time of the first error leading to the loan rejection through the date that the loan is cured. The Company is allowed three years from the date of the loan rejection to cure most loan rejections. If a cure cannot be achieved during this three year period, insurance is permanently revoked and the Company maintains its right to collect the loan proceeds from the borrower. A guaranty agency may also assess an interest penalty upon claim payment if the error(s) does not result in a loan rejection. These interest penalties are not subject to cure provisions, and are typically related to isolated instances of due diligence deficiencies. Failure to comply with Federal and guarantor regulations may result in loss of insurance or assessment of interest penalties at the time of claim reimbursement by the Company. A future increase in either the loans claim rejections and/or interest penalties could become material to the Company’s fiscal operations. Future losses due to defaults on loans held by the Company, or loans sold to third parties which the Company is obligated to repurchase in the event of certain delinquencies, present credit risk which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Over 99% of the Company’s student loan portfolio is comprised of federally insured loans. These loans currently benefit from a federal guaranty of their principal balance and accrued interest. The allowance for loan losses from the federally insured loan portfolio is based on periodic evaluations of the Company’s loan portfolios considering past experience, trends in student loan claims rejected for payment by guarantors, changes to federal student loan programs, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. The federal government currently guarantees 97% of the principal of and the interest on federally insured student loans disbursed on and after July 1, 2006 (and 98% for those loans disbursed prior to July 1, 2006), which limits the Company’s loss exposure on the outstanding balance of the Company’s federally insured portfolio. Student loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993 are fully insured for both principal and interest. The Company’s non-federally insured loans are unsecured and are not guaranteed or reinsured under any government or private insurance program. Accordingly, the Company bears the full risk of loss on these loans if the borrower and co-borrower, if applicable, default. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses on the non-federally insured loans, the Company considers several factors including: loans in repayment versus those in a nonpaying status, delinquency status, loan program type, and trends in defaults in the portfolio based on company and industry data. The Company places a non-federally insured loan on nonaccrual status when the collection of principal and interest is 30 days past due and charges off the loan when the collection of principal and interest is 120 days past due. 25 The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that the Company’s management believes is adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes, debt management operational effectiveness, and other unforeseen future trends. If actual performance is worse than estimated, it could materially affect the Company’s estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in the Company’s statement of operations. The Company has participated non-federally insured loans to third parties. Loans participated under these agreements have been accounted for by the Company as loan sales. Accordingly, the participation interests sold are not included on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Per the terms of the servicing agreements, the Company’s servicing operations are obligated to repurchase loans subject to the participation interests when such loans become 60 or 90 days delinquent. The evaluation of the reserve related to these participated loans is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that may be subject to changes. If actual performance is worse than estimated, it could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. A failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel, skilled management, and qualified subcontractors may have an adverse impact on the Company’s future growth. Because the Company operates in intensely competitive markets, its success depends, to a significant extent, upon its ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled and qualified personnel and to subcontract with qualified, competent subcontractors. If the Company fails to attract, train, and retain sufficient numbers of qualified engineers, technical and operational staff, and sales and marketing representatives or is unable to contract with qualified, competent subcontractors, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s success also depends on the skills, experience, and performance of key members of its management team. The loss of any key employee or the loss of a key subcontractor relationship could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, cash flow, results of operations, and future prospects. The Company’s government contracts are subject to termination rights, audits, and investigations, and, if terminated, could negatively impact the Company’s reputation and reduce its ability to compete for new contracts. The Company has entered into new contracts with government agencies and has plans to expand its government agency services. For example, in June 2009, the Department of Education named the Company as one of four private sector companies awarded a servicing contract to service all federally-owned student loans. Federal and state governments and their agencies may have the right to terminate contracts at any time, without cause. These contracts, upon their expiration or termination, are typically subject to bidding processes in which the Company may not be successful. Also, the Department of Education and other federal contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the United States Congress to fund the expenditures of the federal government under these contracts. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations by government agencies. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, the Company may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions, or debarment from doing business with the government. Further, the negative publicity that arises from findings in such audits or investigations, or the penalties or sanctions which result, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s reputation in the industry and reduce the ability to compete for new contracts. Any resulting reputation damage, penalties, or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company may face operational and security risks from its reliance on vendors to complete specific business operations. The Company relies on outside vendors to provide some of the key components of business operations. Several of these key vendors are provided access to the Company’s customer data to complete the operations required by their contracts, such as banking services, electronic and paper correspondence, credit reporting, skip tracing, and secure storage of proprietary and customer information. The Company’s vendors must comply with the Company’s defined servicing levels, security policies, and the Company’s industry regulations. However, disruptions in vendor services, changes in servicing contracts, security, or non-compliance with industry regulations could hinder the Company’s ability to meet customer obligations, service levels, or lead to financial or reputation damage. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s services. 26 The markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, which could affect revenue and profit margins. As the Company seeks to further expand its business, the Company will face numerous competitors who may be well established in the markets the Company’s operating segments seek to penetrate, or who may have better brand recognition and greater financial resources. Demand for the Company’s products and services can be affected by following competitive factors: · Development and timely introduction of competitive products and services · Ability to reduce operating costs · Product and servicing performance · Ability to provide value-added features · Response to pricing pressures · Changes in customer discretionary spending · Changes in customers’ preferences, including the success of products and services offered by competitors · Availability of capital Additionally, if the Company fails to deliver results that are superior to its competitors, the Company could lose clients and experience a decline in revenue and profit margins. Transactions with affiliates and potential conflicts of interest of certain of the Company’s officers and directors, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, pose risks to the Company’s shareholders that the Company may not enter into transactions on the same terms that the Company could receive from unrelated third-parties. The Company has entered into certain contractual arrangements with entities controlled by Michael S. Dunlap, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, and members of his family and, to a lesser extent, with entities in which other directors and members of management hold equity interests or board or management positions. Such arrangements constitute a significant portion of the Company’s business and include cash management activities and sales of student loans and student loan origination rights by such affiliates to the Company. These arrangements may present potential conflicts of interest. Many of these arrangements are with Union Bank, in which Mr. Dunlap owns an indirect interest and of which he serves as a member of the Board of Directors. The Company intends to maintain its relationship with Union Bank, which management believes provides substantial benefits to the Company, although there can be no assurance that any transactions between the Company and entities controlled by Mr. Dunlap, his family, and/or other officers and directors of the Company are, or in the future will be, on terms that are no less favorable than what could be obtained from an unrelated third party. The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns a substantial percentage of the Company’s Class A and Class B common stock and is able to control all matters subject to a shareholder vote. Michael S. Dunlap, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, beneficially owns a substantial percentage of the Company’s outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Each share of Class A common stock has one vote and each share of Class B common stock has 10 votes on all matters to be voted upon by the Company’s shareholders. As a result, Mr. Dunlap is able to control all matters requiring approval by the Company’s shareholders, including the election of all members of the Board of Directors, and may do so in a manner with which other shareholders may not agree or which they may not consider to be in the best interest of other shareholders. Stephen F. Butterfield, the Company’s Vice Chairman, also owns a substantial number of shares of Class B common stock. Negative publicity could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect its operating segments and their financial results. Reputation risk, or the risk to earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in the Company’s business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect the Company’s ability to keep and attract customers and expose the Company to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because the Company conducts most of its businesses under the “Nelnet” brand, negative public opinion about one operating segment could affect other operating segments. Over the last several years, the student lending industry has been the subject of various investigations and reports. The publicity associated with these investigations and reports may have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation and its operating segments. To the extent that potential or existing customers decide not to utilize the Company’s products or services as a result of such publicity, the Company’s overall operating results may be adversely affected. 27 A continued economic recession could reduce demand for Company products and services and lead to lower revenue and earnings. The Company generates revenue from the interest earned on loans and fees charged for other products and services it sells. When the economy slows, the demand for products and services can fall, reducing fee revenue and earnings. An economic downturn can also impede on the ability of customers to repay their loans or to afford fee-based products and services. Additionally, the Company may be exposed to credit risk from business customers. Several factors could cause the economy to slow down or even recede, including higher energy costs, higher interest rates, reduced consumer or corporate spending, declining home values, natural disasters, terrorist activities, military conflicts, and the normal cyclical nature of the economy. The Company may not be able to successfully protect its intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. The Company relies on a combination of contractual rights and copyrights, trademarks, patents, and trade secret laws to establish and protect its proprietary technology and other intellectual property. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to the Company’s products. The Company’s competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate products or services, or design around intellectual property rights. The Company may have to litigate to enforce and protect its intellectual property rights, trade secrets, and know-how or to determine their scope, validity, or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm the Company’s operating segments and ability to compete. The Company may also be subject to costly litigation in the event its products and technology infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or other proprietary rights that would be infringed by the Company’s products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against the Company. The Company may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject the Company to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of this type could require the Company to design around a third party’s intellectual property or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention away from other critical business operations. Any claim by third parties may result in limitations on the Company’s ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. ITEM 