ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Asset Generation and Management and Student Loan and Guaranty Servicing Operating Segments The following risk factors relate to the Company’s operating segments most impacted by the provisions of the FFEL Program which include: • Asset Generation and Management • Student Loan and Guaranty Servicing Additional risk factors affecting these segments are set forth under the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” caption below. Changes in legislation and regulations could have a negative impact upon the Company’s business and may affect its profitability. Funds for payment of interest subsidy payments, special allowance payments, and other payments under the FFEL Program are subject to annual budgetary appropriations by Congress. Federal budget legislation has in the past contained provisions that restricted payments made under the FFEL Program to achieve reductions in federal spending. Future federal budget legislation may adversely affect expenditures by the Department and the financial condition of the Company. On August 14, 2008, the Higher Education Opportunity Act (“HEOA”) was enacted into law and effectively reauthorized the FFEL Program through 2014, with authorization to make FFELP loans through 2018 to borrowers with existing loans. Provisions in the HEOA include, but are not limited to, the following: • School code of conduct requirements applicable to FFELP and private education loan lending • Disclosure and reporting requirements for lenders and schools participating in preferred lender arrangements • Permissible and prohibited inducement activities on the part of FFELP lenders, private education lenders, and FFELP guaranty agencies • Additional loan origination and repayment disclosures that FFELP and private education lenders must provide to borrowers • Additional FFELP loan servicing requirements 15 Table of Contents The HEOA may affect the Company’s profitability by increasing costs as a result of required changes to the Company’s operations. The College Cost Reduction Act established a competitive auction program, effective July 1, 2009, for the origination rights to PLUS loans made to parents. The Secretary of Education must hold auctions in which FFEL Program lenders bid on the special allowance rate they are willing to accept in exchange for the right to originate PLUS loans to parent borrowers in a particular state. The bid submitted by a lender cannot exceed the special allowance rate for such loans currently defined in the Higher Education Act. The Secretary may award the origination rights on a state-by-state basis to the lenders which submit the two lowest bids. The Company may not be one of the two lenders awarded the origination rights in one or more states, which could result in a reduced amount of PLUS loan volume. Furthermore, Congressional amendments to the Higher Education Act, or other relevant federal laws, and rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Education, may adversely impact holders of FFELP loans. For example, changes might be made to the rate of interest or special allowance payments paid on FFELP loans, to the level of insurance provided by guaranty agencies, to the fees assessed to FFEL Program lenders, or to the servicing requirements for FFELP loans. New policies affecting the competition between the Federal Direct Loan and FFEL Programs may be instituted, or the FFEL Program could be eliminated in its entirety. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its operations. The Company cannot predict potential legislation impacting the FFEL Program and recognizes that a level of political and legislative risk always exists within the industry. In addition to changes to the Higher Education Act and FFEL Program, various state laws and regulations targeted at student lending companies have been enacted. These laws place restrictions on lending and business practices between schools and lenders of FFELP and private education loans and required changes to the Company’s business practices and operations. As with possible actions in the future by Congress and the Secretary of Education at the federal level, state legislatures may enact laws and state regulating agencies may institute rules or take actions which adversely impact holders of FFELP or private education loans. The impact of legislative changes coupled with financial market disruption has caused the Company and other FFELP lenders to re-evaluate the markets in which they originate loans and the value of the FFEL Program loan assets they hold. Some lenders may limit originations to schools based on the school’s cohort default rate and some lenders may sell loans to the Department through the Department’s Participation and Purchase Program. Additionally, schools currently participating in the FFEL Program may re-evaluate the Direct Loan Program. These changes could reduce future third party servicing volume and the Company’s loan servicing and guaranty revenue. The Company may be subject to penalties and sanctions if it fails to comply with governmental regulations or guaranty agency rules. Historically, the Company’s principal business has been comprised of originating, acquiring, holding, and servicing student loans made and guaranteed pursuant to the FFEL Program, which was created by the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act governs many aspects of the Company’s operations. The Company is also subject to rules of the agencies that act as guarantors of the student loans, known as guaranty agencies. In addition, the Company is subject to certain federal and state banking laws, regulations, and examinations, as well as federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations, including, without limitation, laws and regulations governing borrower privacy protection, information security, restrictions on access to student information, and, specifically with respect to the Company’s non-federally insured loan portfolio, certain state usury laws and related regulations and the Federal Truth in Lending Act. All or most of these laws and regulations impose substantial requirements upon lenders and servicers involved in consumer finance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in liability for the Company as a result of the imposition of civil penalties and potential class action law suits. The Company’s failure to comply with the regulatory regimes described above may arise from: • Breaches of the Company’s internal control systems, such as a failure to adjust manual or automated servicing functions following a change in regulatory requirements • Privacy issues • Technological defects, such as a malfunction in or destruction of the Company’s computer systems • Fraud by the Company’s employees or other persons in activities such as borrower payment processing 16 Table of Contents Such failure to comply, irrespective of the reason, could subject the Company to loss of the federal guaranty on federally insured loans, costs of curing servicing deficiencies or remedial servicing, suspension or termination of the Company’s right to participate in the FFEL Program or to participate as a servicer, negative publicity, and potential legal claims or actions brought by the Company’s servicing customers and borrowers. The Company has the ability to cure servicing deficiencies and the Company’s historical losses in this area have been minimal. However, the Company’s loan servicing and guaranty servicing activities are highly dependent on its information systems, and while the Company has well-developed and tested business recovery systems, the Company faces the risk of business disruption should there be extended failures of its systems. The Company has entered into separate agreements with the Nebraska and New York State Attorneys General in relation to its lending activities. The Company pledges full disclosure and transparency in its marketing, origination, and servicing of education loans. Failure to meet the terms and conditions of an agreement could subject the Company to legal action by the respective Attorney General. The Higher Education Act generally prohibits a lender from providing certain inducements to educational institutions or individuals in order to secure applicants for FFELP loans. The Company has structured its relationships and product offerings in a manner intended to comply with the Higher Education Act, supporting regulations, and the available communications and guidance from the Department. If the Department were to change its position on any of these matters, the Company may have to change the way it markets products and services and a new marketing strategy may not be as effective. If the Company fails to respond to the Department’s change in position, the Department could potentially impose sanctions upon the Company that could negatively impact the Company’s business. Competition created from other lenders and servicers may adversely impact the volume of future originations and the Company’s loan and guaranty servicing businesses. The Company’s student loan originations generally are limited to students attending eligible educational institutions in the United States. Origination volume is greater at some schools than others, and the Company’s and its servicing clients’ ability to remain active lenders at a particular school is subject to competition from other FFEL Program lenders. In addition to other lenders, the Company also faces competition from other FFEL Program loan and guaranty service providers who may be willing to modify pricing or services to gain greater market share. As the Company seeks to further expand its business, the Company will face numerous competitors who may be well established in the markets the Company seeks to penetrate, or who may have better brand recognition and greater financial resources. Consequently, such competitors may have more flexibility to address the risks inherent in the student loan business. Additionally, some of the Company’s competitors are tax-exempt organizations that do not pay federal or state income tax which provides them a pricing advantage. These factors could lead to lower origination volume and reduced loan and guaranty servicing revenue. Competition created by the Federal Direct Loan Program may adversely impact the volume of future originations and the Company’s loan and guaranty servicing business. The Student Loan Reform Act of 1993 authorized a program of “direct loans” to be originated by schools with funds provided by the Secretary of Education. Under the Direct Loan Program, the Secretary of Education enters into agreements with schools, or origination agents in lieu of schools, to disburse loans with funds provided by the Secretary of Education. Participation in the program by schools is voluntary. The loan terms are generally the same under the Direct Loan Program as under the FFEL Program, though more flexible repayment, consolidation, and forgiveness provisions are available under the Direct Loan Program. Additionally, the interest rate on Direct PLUS Loans made on or after July 1, 2006, is more favorable for parent and graduate borrowers. At the discretion of the Secretary of Education, students attending schools that participate in the Direct Loan Program (and their parents) may still be eligible for participation in the FFEL Program, though no borrower can obtain loans under both programs for the same period of enrollment. As a result of the recent legislation and capital market disruptions, many lenders have withdrawn from the student loan market. Substantially all other lenders have altered their student loan offerings including the elimination of certain borrower benefits and premiums paid on secondary market loan purchases. Many FFELP lenders have made other significant changes which dramatically reduced the loan volume they originated. These conditions, primarily centered on loan access and loan processing, have led a number of schools to convert from the FFELP to the Direct Loan Program or participate in the Direct Loan Program in addition to the FFELP. 17 Table of Contents It is difficult to predict the impact of the Direct Loan Program, as there is no way to accurately predict the number of schools that will participate in future years or, if the Secretary authorizes students attending participating schools to continue to be eligible for FFELP loans, how many students will seek loans under the Direct Loan Program instead of the FFEL Program. In addition, it is impossible to predict whether future legislation will eliminate, limit, or expand the Direct Loan Program or the FFEL Program. The reduction in the Company’s student loan purchases from branding and forward flow partners could have an adverse impact on its business. The Company has historically acquired student loans through forward flow commitments and branding partner arrangements with other student loan lenders. The enactment of the College Cost Reduction Act in September 2007 resulted in a reduction in the yields on student loans and, accordingly, a reduction in the amount of the premium the Company could pay lenders under its forward flow commitments and branding partner arrangements. In addition, the current capital market disruptions have rendered origination or acquisition of student loans through these channels uneconomical. Accordingly, the Company has limited acquisition of student loans through its branding and forward flow relationships and will only buy loans that are economically priced and eligible for the Department’s Participation and Purchase Program. As a result, the Company has and will continue to experience a decrease in its forward flow and branding partner loan volume. The Company can give no assurance that it will be successful in renegotiating or renewing, on economically reasonable terms, its branding and forward flow agreements once those agreements expire. Loss of a strong branding or forward flow partner, or relationships with schools from which a significant volume of student loans is directly or indirectly acquired, could result in an adverse effect on the Company’s business. A decrease in third-party servicing volume could have a negative effect on the Company’s earnings. To the extent that third-party servicing clients reduce the volume of student loans that the Company processes on their behalf or decide not to hold FFELP loan assets, the Company’s income would be reduced, and, to the extent the related costs could not be reduced correspondingly, net income could be adversely affected. Such volume reductions may occur for a variety of reasons, including if third-party servicing clients commence or increase internal servicing activities, shift volume to another service provider, sell their loan portfolios, or exit the FFEL Program completely, for instance, as a result of reduced interest rate margins. Future losses due to defaults on loans held by the Company present credit risk which could adversely affect the Company’s earnings. Over 99% of the Company’s student loan portfolio is comprised of federally insured loans. These loans currently benefit from a federal guaranty of their principal balance and accrued interest. The allowance for loan losses from the federally insured loan portfolio is based on periodic evaluations of the Company’s loan portfolios considering past experience, trends in student loan claims rejected for payment by guarantors, changes to federal student loan programs, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. The federal government currently guarantees 97% of the principal of and the interest on federally insured student loans disbursed on and after July 1, 2006 (and 98% for those loans disbursed prior to July 1, 2006), which limits the Company’s loss exposure on the outstanding balance of the Company’s federally insured portfolio. Also, in accordance with the Student Loan Reform Act of 1993, student loans disbursed prior to October 1, 1993 are fully insured for both principal and interest. The Company’s non-federally insured loans are unsecured and are not guaranteed or reinsured under any federal student loan program or any private insurance program. Accordingly, the Company bears the full risk of loss on these loans if the borrower and co-borrower, if applicable, default. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses on the non-federally insured loans, the Company considers several factors including: loans in repayment versus those in a nonpaying status, months in repayment, delinquency status, loan program type, loan underwriting, economic trends and historical portfolio default trends. The Company places a non-federally insured loan on nonaccrual status and charges off the loan when the collection of principal and interest is 120 days past due. The evaluation of the allowance for loan losses is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be subject to significant changes. The provision for loan losses reflects the activity for the applicable period and provides an allowance at a level that the Company’s management believes is adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. However, future defaults can be higher than anticipated due to a variety of factors such as downturns in the economy, regulatory or operational changes, debt management operational effectiveness, and other unforeseen future trends. If actual performance is worse than estimated, it could materially affect the Company’s estimate of the allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses in the Company’s statement of operations. 18 Table of Contents The Company must satisfy certain requirements necessary to maintain the federal guarantees of its federally insured loans, and the Company may incur penalties or lose its guarantees if it fails to meet these requirements. The Company must meet various requirements in order to maintain the federal guaranty on its federally insured loans. These requirements include establishing servicing requirements and procedural guidelines and specify school and loan eligibility criteria. The federal guaranty on the Company’s federally insured loans is conditional based on the Company’s compliance with origination, servicing, and collection policies set by the Department and guaranty agencies. Federally insured loans that are not originated, disbursed, or serviced in accordance with the Department’s and guarantee agency regulations may risk partial or complete loss of the guaranty thereof. If the Company experiences a high rate of servicing deficiencies (including any deficiencies resulting from the conversion of loans from one servicing platform to another, errors in the loan origination process, establishment of the borrower’s repayment status, and due diligence or claim filing processes), it could result in the loan guarantee being revoked or denied. In most cases the Company has the opportunity to cure these deficiencies by following a prescribed cure process which usually involves obtaining the borrower’s reaffirmation of the debt. The lender becomes ineligible for special allowance interest benefits from the time of the first error leading to the loan rejection through the date that the loan is cured. The Company is allowed three years from the date of the loan rejection to cure most loan rejections. If a cure cannot be achieved during this three year period, insurance is permanently revoked and the Company maintains its right to collect the loan proceeds from the borrower. A guaranty agency may also assess an interest penalty upon claim payment if the error(s) does not result in a loan rejection. These interest penalties are not subject to cure provisions, and are typically related to isolated instances of due diligence deficiencies. Failure to comply with Federal and guarantor regulations may result in loss of insurance or assessment of interest penalties at the time of claim reimbursement by the Company. A future increase in either the loans claim rejections and/or interest penalties could become material to the Company’s fiscal operations. Higher rates of prepayments of student loans could reduce the Company’s profits. Pursuant to the Higher Education Act, borrowers may prepay loans made under the FFEL Program at any time without penalty. Prepayments may result from consolidating student loans, which historically tends to occur more frequently in low interest rate environments, from borrower defaults, which will result in the receipt of a guaranty payment, and from voluntary full or partial prepayments, among other things. High prepayment rates will have the most impact on the Company’s asset-backed securitization transactions, since those securities are priced according to the expected average lives of the underlying loans. The rate of prepayments of student loans may be influenced by a variety of economic, social, and other factors affecting borrowers, including interest rates and the availability of alternative financing. The Company’s profits could be adversely affected by higher prepayments, which may reduce the amount of net interest income the Company receives. Consolidation loan activity by competitors or through the Direct Loan Program presents a risk to the Company’s loan portfolio and profitability. The Company’s portfolio of federally insured loans is subject to refinancing through the use of consolidation loans, which are expressly permitted by the Higher Education Act and the Direct Loan Program. In January 2008, the Company suspended consolidation student loan originations as a result of legislative actions and capital market disruptions which impacted the profitability of consolidation loans. As a result, the Company may lose student loans in its portfolio that are consolidated by competing FFELP lenders or by the Direct Loan Program. Increased consolidations of student loans by the Company’s competitors or by the Direct Loan Program may result in a negative return on loans, when considering the origination costs or acquisition premiums paid with respect to these loans. Moreover, it may result in a reduction in net interest income. Additionally, consolidation of loans away by competing lenders or by the Direct Loan Program can result in a decrease of the Company’s servicing portfolio, thereby decreasing fee-based servicing income. The Company faces liquidity risks associated with financing student loan originations and acquisitions. A primary funding need of the Company is to finance its existing student loan portfolio and to fund new student loan originations and acquisitions. The Company relies upon secured financing vehicles as its most significant source of funding for student loans. Current conditions in the capital markets have resulted in reduced liquidity and increased credit risk premiums for market participants. These conditions may continue to increase the cost and reduce the availability of debt in the capital markets. As a result, a prolonged period of market illiquidity may affect the Company’s ability to finance its current student loan portfolio and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future earnings and financial condition. See the additional risk factors under the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” caption below and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 19 Table of Contents Elimination of the FFEL Program by the Federal Government would have a significant negative effect on the Company’s earnings and operations. Elimination of the FFEL Program would significantly impact the Company’s operations and profitability by, among other things, reducing the Company’s interest revenues as a result of the inability to add new FFELP loans to the Company’s portfolio and reducing guarantee and third-party servicing fees as a result of reduced FFELP loan servicing and origination volume. Additionally, the elimination of the FFEL Program would reduce education loan software sales and related consulting fees received from lenders using the Company’s software products and services. On February 26, 2009, the President introduced several proposals related to the fiscal year 2010 Federal budget, including a proposal for the elimination of the FFEL Program and a recommendation that all new student loan originations be funded through the Direct Loan Program, with loan servicing to be provided by private sector companies through performance-based contracts with the Department. The proposal did not contain specific details as to implementation or timing, and the proposal is subject to review by Congress and possible changes. The Company cannot currently predict whether this or any other proposals to eliminate the FFEL Program will ultimately be enacted. Utilization by lenders of the Department’s Participation and Purchase Program could reduce servicing, default aversion, and collection revenue. On July 1, 2008, pursuant to the ECASLA, the Department announced terms under which it will offer to purchase certain FFELP student loans and participation interests in certain FFELP student loans from FFELP lenders. Under the Department’s Purchase Program, the Department will purchase loans at a price equal to the sum of (i) par value, (ii) accrued interest, (iii) the one percent origination fee paid to the Department, and (iv) a fixed amount of $75 per loan. Lenders will have until September 30, 2009 to sell loans to the Department under the 2008-2009 academic year Purchase Program. On October 7, 2008, legislation was enacted to extend the Department’s authority to address FFELP student loans made for the 2009-2010 academic year and allowing for the replication of the Participation Program and Purchase Program for the 2009-2010 academic year. Lenders will have until September 30, 2010 to sell 2009-2010 academic year loans to the Department. FFELP student loans purchased by the Department through the Purchase Program may be serviced by the Department, consequently reducing the size of the FFEL Program third-party servicing market. Use of the Purchase Program by the Company and its third-party servicing clients will likely reduce future third-party servicing and will reduce guaranty revenue. Operating Segments — Fee-Based Businesses The following risk factors relate to the Company’s operating segments not directly related to the FFEL Program. These operating segments include: • Tuition Payment Processing and Campus Commerce • Enrollment Services • Software and Technical Services Changes in legislation and regulations could have a negative impact upon the Company’s business and may affect its profitability. Changes to privacy and direct mail legislation could negatively impact the Company, in particular the Company’s list management and lead generation activities. Changes in such legislation could restrict the Company’s ability to collect information for its list management and lead generation activities and its ability to use the information it collects. The Company has a privacy policy that covers how certain subsidiaries collect, protect, and use personal information. Depending on the department, product, and/or other factors, certain entities may have more restrictive information handling practices. The Company’s Software and Technical Services operating segment provides information technology products and services, with core areas of business in student loan software solutions for schools, lenders, and guarantors. Many of the Company’s customers receiving these services have been negatively impacted through reduced margins as a result of the passage of the College Cost Reduction Act in September 2007 and the recent disruption in the financial markets. This impact could decrease the demand for the Company’s products and services and affect the Company’s revenue and profit margins. The Company’s results are affected by competitive conditions, economic changes, and customer preferences. Demand for the Company’s products and services, which impact revenue and profit margins, is affected by (i) the development and timing of the introduction of competitive products and services; (ii) the Company’s response to pricing pressures to stay competitive; (iii) changes in customer discretionary spending based on economic conditions; and (iv) changes in customers’ preferences for the Company’s products and services, including the success of products and services offered by competitors. In addition, K-12 and post-secondary enrollment numbers impact the demand for the Company’s products and services. Education enrollment numbers are impacted by general population trends and the general state of the economy. Revenue in the Company’s fee- based businesses is recurring only to the extent that customer relationships are sustained. For some products and services, volume and growth is concentrated to a limited number of customers. Reduction in volume or loss of key customer relationships could have a negative impact on the Company’s future operating results. 20 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company faces liquidity and funding risk to meet its financial obligations. Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that the Company will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or other financing alternatives, or difficulty in raising financing needed for its assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. The recent unprecedented disruptions in the credit and financial markets and the general economic crisis have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the cost and availability of financing for the Company’s student loan portfolios and, as a result, have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. Such adverse conditions may continue or worsen in the future. The Company’s primary funding needs are those required to finance its student loan portfolio and satisfy its cash requirements for new student loan originations and acquisitions. In general, the amount, type, and cost of the Company’s funding, including securitizations and unsecured financing from the capital markets and borrowings from financial institutions, have a direct impact on the Company’s operating expenses and financial results and can limit the Company’s ability to grow its student loan assets. The Company relies upon secured financing vehicles as its most significant source of funding for student loans. The Company’s primary secured financing vehicles are loan warehouse facilities and asset-backed securitizations. Historically, the Company funded new loan originations using loan warehouse facilities and asset-backed securitizations. Student loan warehousing has historically allowed the Company to buy and manage student loans prior to transferring them into more permanent financing arrangements. In July 2008, the Company did not renew its liquidity provisions on its FFELP warehouse facility. Accordingly, the facility became a term facility and no new loan originations could be funded with this facility. In August 2008, the Company began funding FFELP Stafford and PLUS student loan originations for the 2008-2009 academic year pursuant to the Department’s Loan Participation Program (as discussed below). In August 2008, the Department implemented the Purchase Program and the Participation Program pursuant to the ECASLA. Under the Department’s Purchase Program, the Department will purchase loans at a price equal to the sum of (i) par value, (ii) accrued interest, (iii) the one percent origination fee paid to the Department, and (iv) a fixed amount of $75 per loan. Under the Participation Program, the Department provides interim short term liquidity to FFELP lenders by purchasing participation interests in pools of FFELP loans. FFELP lenders are charged a rate of commercial paper plus 50 basis points on the principal amount of participation interests outstanding. Loans funded under the Participation Program for the 2008-2009 academic year must be either refinanced by the lender or sold to the Department pursuant to the Purchase Program prior to its expiration on September 30, 2009. To be eligible for purchase or participation under the Department’s programs, loans were originally limited to FFELP Stafford or PLUS loans made for the academic year 2008-2009, first disbursed between May 1, 2008 and July 1, 2009, with eligible borrower benefits. On October 7, 2008, legislation was enacted to extend the Department’s authority to address FFELP student loans made for the 2009-2010 academic year and allowing for the extension of the Participation Program and Purchase Program from September 30, 2009 to September 30, 2010. The Department indicated that loans for the 2008-2009 academic year which are funded under the Department’s Participation Program will need to be refinanced or sold to the Department prior to September 30, 2009. On November 8, 2008, the Department announced the replication of the terms of the Participation and Purchase Program, in accordance with the October 7th legislation, which will include FFELP student loans made for the 2009-2010 academic year. Loans for the 2009-2010 academic year will need to be refinanced or sold to the Department prior to September 30, 2010. With respect to the origination of new FFELP student loans for the 2008-2009 and 2009-2010 academic years, the Company currently expects to utilize the Department’s Participation Program. The Company has historically relied on asset-backed securitizations as a significant source of funding for student loans on a long term basis. The severe disruptions in the credit and financial markets have made asset-backed securitization financing generally unavailable. The Company is currently unable to predict when market conditions will allow for future asset-backed securitization financing. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 21 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to obtain cost-effective and stable funding alternatives, its funding capabilities and liquidity would be negatively impacted and its cost of funds could increase, adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations. In addition, the Company’s ability to originate and acquire student loans would be limited or could be eliminated. The Company is exposed to mark-to-formula collateral support risk on its FFELP warehouse facility. The Company’s warehouse facility for FFELP loans provides formula based advance rates based on current market conditions, which require equity support to be posted to the facility. While the Company does not believe that the loan valuation formula is reflective of the actual fair value of its loans, it is subject to compliance with these provisions of the warehouse facility agreement. As of December 31, 2008, $1.4 billion was outstanding under this facility. Under the current terms of the facility, the remaining student loan collateral will need to be refinanced or removed by May 9, 2010, the final maturity of the facility. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $280.6 million posted as equity funding support for the facility. The Company has utilized its $750.0 million unsecured line of credit to fund equity advances on its warehouse facility. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $691.5 million outstanding under the line of credit and $51.2 million available for future use. The amount available under the line of credit is less than maximum capacity as a credit provider is no longer funding draw requests (see below). Continued disruptions in the credit and financial markets may cause additional volatility in the loan valuation formula under the warehouse facility. Should a significant change in the valuation of loans result in additional required equity funding support for the warehouse facility greater than what the Company can provide, the warehouse facility could be subject to an event of default resulting in a termination of the facility and an acceleration of the repayment provisions. A default on the FFELP warehouse facility would result in an event of default on the Company’s unsecured line of credit that would result in the outstanding balance on the line of credit becoming immediately due and payable. The Company plans to remove and/or refinance the remaining collateral in this facility by using the Department’s Conduit Program, using other financing arrangements, including secured transactions in the capital markets, using unrestricted operating cash, and/or selling loans to third parties. The Company cannot predict if it will be successful at removing and/or refinancing the remaining collateral in the FFELP warehouse facility and such terms may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company faces counterparty risk. The Company has exposure to the financial condition of its various lending, investment, and derivative counterparties. If any of the Company’s counterparties is unable to perform its obligations, the Company would, depending on the type of counterparty arrangement, experience a loss of liquidity or an economic loss. Related to derivative exposure, the Company may not be able to cost effectively replace the derivative position depending on the type of derivative and the current economic environment. If the Company was not able to replace the derivative position, the Company would be exposed to a greater level of interest rate and/or foreign currency exchange rate risk which could lead to additional losses. The lending commitment under the Company’s $750.0 million unsecured line of credit is provided by a total of thirteen banks, with no individual bank representing more than 11% of the total lending commitment. The bank lending group includes Lehman Brothers Bank (“Lehman”), a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which represents approximately 7% of the lending commitment under the line of credit. On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Since the bankruptcy filing, the Company has experienced funding delays from Lehman for its portion of the lending commitment and does not expect Lehman to fund future borrowing requests. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” As a source of liquidity for funding new FFELP student loan originations, the Company maintains a participation agreement with the related party Union Bank and Trust Company (“Union Bank”), as trustee for various grantor trusts, under which Union Bank has agreed to purchase from the Company participation interests in student loans. The Company currently can participate loans to Union Bank to the extent of availability under the grantor trusts, up to $750 million. In the event that Union Bank experiences adverse changes to its financial condition, such participation agreement liquidity may not be available to the Company in the future. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had a total of $610 million invested in guaranteed investment contracts (“GICs”). Approximately $100 million of these GICs are with foreign banks, which receive support from regional or national governments. The remaining $510 million of these GICs are with a total of three banks, all of which are currently at least A rated, and with one such bank representing 88% of this amount. These agreements may be terminated by the Company if the GIC providers’ unsecured credit rating falls below a certain threshold. A default by the counterparties under the GICs could lead to a loss of the Company’s investment and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents When the mark-to-market value of a derivative instrument is negative, the Company owes the counterparty and, therefore, has no immediate counterparty risk. Additionally, if the negative mark-to-market value of derivatives with a counterparty exceeds a specified threshold, the Company may have to make a collateral deposit with the counterparty. The threshold at which the Company posts collateral may depend on the Company’s unsecured credit rating. If interest and foreign currency exchange rates move materially, the Company could be required to deposit a significant amount of collateral with its derivative instrument counterparties. The collateral deposits, if significant, could negatively impact the Company’s capital resources. When the fair value of a derivative contract is positive, this generally indicates that the counterparty owes the Company. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk with such counterparty is equal to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative less any collateral held by the Company. The Company attempts to manage market and credit risks associated with interest and foreign currency exchange rates by establishing and monitoring limits as to the types and degree of risk that may be undertaken, and by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties that are reviewed periodically by the Company’s risk committee. The Company also has a policy of requiring that all derivative contracts be governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. Master Agreement. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk because the interest rate characteristics of the Company’s assets do not match the interest rate characteristics of the funding for the assets. The Company issues asset-backed securities, the vast majority being variable rate, to fund its student loan assets. The variable rate debt is generally indexed to 3-month LIBOR, set by auction, or through a remarketing process. The income generated by the Company’s student loan assets is generally driven by short term indices (treasury bills and commercial paper) that are different from those which affect the Company’s liabilities (generally LIBOR), which creates basis risk. Moreover, the Company also faces repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on its liabilities, which may occur as infrequently as every quarter, and the timing of the interest rate resets on its assets, which generally occurs daily. In a declining interest rate environment, this may cause the Company’s student loan spread to compress, while in a rising rate environment, it may cause the spread to increase. In using different index types and different index reset frequencies to fund assets, the Company is exposed to interest rate risk in the form of basis risk and repricing risk, which, as noted above, is the risk that the different indices may reset at different frequencies, or will not move in the same direction or with the same magnitude. While these indices are short term with rate movements that are highly correlated over a longer period of time, they have recently become less correlated. There can be no assurance the indices will regain their high level of correlation in the future due to capital market dislocations or other factors not within the Company’s control. In such circumstances, the Company’s earnings could be adversely affected, possibly to a material extent. The Company has used derivative instruments to hedge the repricing risk due to the timing of the interest rate resets on its assets and liabilities. However, the Company does not generally hedge the basis risk due to the different interest rate indices associated with its assets and liabilities since the derivatives needed to hedge this risk are generally illiquid or non-existent and the relationship between the indices for most of the Company’s assets and liabilities has been highly correlated over a long period of time. Recently, the spread has widened and may widen further, which has and may continue to have a significant impact on the net spread of the Company’s student loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately $23.6 billion of FFELP loans indexed to three-month financial commercial paper rate and $20.5 billion of debt indexed to LIBOR. Due to the unintended consequences of government intervention in the commercial paper markets and limited issuances of qualifying financial commercial paper, the relationship between the three-month financial CP and LIBOR rates has been distorted and volatile. To address this issue, the Department announced that for purposes of calculating the FFELP loan index from October 27, 2008 to December 31, 2008, the Federal Reserve’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility rate was used for those days in which no three-month financial commercial paper rate was available. This action partially mitigated the recent volatility between CP and LIBOR, however, there are no assurances that the Department will utilize a similar methodology for the first quarter of 2009 or in the future. Characteristics unique to asset-backed securitizations may negatively affect the Company’s continued liquidity. The interest rates on certain of the Company’s asset-backed securities are set and periodically reset via a “dutch auction” (“Auction Rate Securities”) or through a remarketing utilizing remarketing agents (“Variable Rate Demand Notes”). For Auction Rate Securities, investors and potential investors submit orders through a broker-dealer as to the principal amount of notes they wish to buy, hold, or sell at various interest rates. The broker-dealers submit their clients’ orders to the auction agent, who then determines the clearing interest rate for the upcoming period. Interest rates on these Auction Rate Securities are reset periodically, generally every 7 to 35 days, by the auction agent or agents. Beginning in the first quarter of 2008, as part of the ongoing credit market crisis, auction rate securities from various issuers have failed to receive sufficient order interest from potential investors to clear successfully, resulting in failed auction status. Since February 2008, the Company’s Auction Rate Securities have failed in this manner. Under historical conditions, the broker-dealers would purchase these securities if investor demand is weak. However, since February 2008, the broker-dealers have been allowing auctions to fail. Currently, all of the Company’s Auction Rate Securities are in a failed auction status and the Company believes they will remain in a failed auction status for an extended period of time and possibly permanently. 23 Table of Contents As a result of a failed auction, the Auction Rate Securities will generally pay interest to the holder at a maximum rate as defined by the indenture. While these rates will vary by class of security, they will generally be based on a spread to LIBOR or Treasury Securities. These maximum rates are subject to increase if the credit ratings on the bonds are downgraded. The Company cannot predict whether future auctions related to its Auction Rate Securities will be successful. The Company is currently seeking alternatives for reducing its exposure to the auction rate market, but may not be able to achieve alternate financing for some or all of its Auction Rate Securities. If there is no demand for the Company’s Auction Rate Securities, the Company could be subject to interest costs substantially above the anticipated and historical rates paid on these types of securities. For Variable Rate Demand Notes, the remarketing agents set the price, which is then offered to investors. If there are insufficient potential bid orders to purchase all of the notes offered for sale, the Company could be subject to interest costs substantially above the anticipated and historical rates paid on these types of securities. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk because of the interest rate characteristics of certain of its assets and the interest rate characteristics of the related funding of such assets. Loans originated prior to April 1, 2006 generally earn interest at the higher of a floating rate based on the Special Allowance Payment or SAP formula set by the Department and the borrower rate, which is fixed over a period of time. The Company generally finances its student loan portfolio with variable rate debt. In low and/or declining interest rate environments, when the fixed borrower rate is higher than the rate produced by the SAP formula, the Company’s student loans earn at a fixed rate while the interest on the variable rate debt typically continues to decline. In these interest rate environments, the Company may earn additional spread income that it refers to as floor income. Depending on the type of loan and when it was originated, the borrower rate is either fixed to term or is reset to an annual rate each July 1. As a result, for loans where the borrower rate is fixed to term, the Company may earn floor income for an extended period of time, which the Company refers to as fixed rate floor income, and for those loans where the borrower rate is reset annually on July 1, the Company may earn floor income to the next reset date, which the Company refers to as variable rate floor income. In accordance with new legislation enacted in 2006, lenders are required to rebate fixed rate floor income and variable rate floor income to the Department for all new FFELP loans first originated on or after April 1, 2006. Absent the use of derivative instruments, a rise in interest rates may reduce the amount of floor income received and this may have an impact on earnings due to interest margin compression caused by increasing financing costs, until such time as the federally insured loans earn interest at a variable rate in accordance with their special allowance payment formulas. In higher interest rate environments, where the interest rate rises above the borrower rate and fixed rate loans effectively convert to variable rate loans, the impact of the rate fluctuations is reduced. The Company is subject to foreign currency exchange risk and such risk could lead to increased costs. As a result of the Company’s offerings in Euro-denominated notes, the Company is exposed to market risk related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, and LIBOR and EURIBOR. The principal and accrued interest on these notes is re-measured at each reporting period and recorded on the Company’s balance sheet in U.S. dollars based on the foreign currency exchange rate on that date. When foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro change significantly, earnings may fluctuate significantly. The Company entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps that hedge these risks but, as discussed below, such swaps may not always be effective. The Company’s derivative instruments may not be successful in managing interest and foreign currency exchange rate risks, which may negatively impact the Company’s operations. When the Company utilizes derivative instruments, it utilizes them to manage interest and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity. The Company’s derivative instruments are intended as economic hedges but do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended by SFAS No. 138, Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (“SFAS No. 133”); consequently, the change in fair value, called the “mark-to-market”, of these derivative instruments is included in the Company’s operating results. Changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates can and have significantly impacted the valuation of the Company’s derivatives. Accordingly, changes or shifts in the forward yield curve and foreign currency exchange rates will impact the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company. Further, the Company may incur costs or be subject to bid/ask spreads if the Company terminates a derivative instrument. The derivative instruments used by the Company are typically in the form of interest rate swaps, basis swaps, and cross-currency interest rate swaps. 24 Table of Contents Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate the Company from risks associated with such fluctuations. Although the Company believes its derivative instruments are highly effective, because many of its derivatives are not balance guaranteed to a particular pool of student loans, the Company is subject to prepayment risk that could result in the Company being under or over hedged, which could result in material losses to the Company. In addition, the Company’s interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk management activities could expose the Company to substantial mark-to-market losses if interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates move materially differently from the environment when the derivatives were entered into. As a result, the Company cannot offer any assurance that its economic hedging activities will effectively manage its interest and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity, or have the desired beneficial impact on its results of operations or financial condition. The ratings of the Company or of any securities issued by the Company may change, which may increase the Company’s costs of capital and may reduce the liquidity of the Company’s securities. Ratings are based primarily on the creditworthiness of the Company, the underlying assets of asset-backed securitizations, the amount of credit enhancement in any given transaction, and the legal structure of any given transaction. Ratings are not a recommendation to purchase, hold, or sell any of the Company’s securities inasmuch as the ratings do not address the market price or suitability for investors. There is no assurance that ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that current ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn by any rating agency. Ratings for the Company or any of its securities may be increased, lowered, or withdrawn by any rating agency if, in the rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. If the Company’s credit ratings are lowered or withdrawn, the Company may experience an increase in the interest rate paid on the Company’s unsecured line of credit or the interest rates or other costs associated with other capital raising activities by the Company, which may negatively affect the Company’s operations. Moreover, if the unsecured ratings of the Company are lowered or withdrawn, it may affect the terms of the Company’s outstanding derivative contracts and could result in requirements for the Company to post additional collateral under those contracts. Additionally, a lowered or withdrawn credit rating may negatively affect the liquidity of the Company’s securities. General Risk Factors A continued economic recession could reduce demand for Company products and services and lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. The Company earns revenue from the interest and fees charged on the loans and other products and services it sells. When the economy slows, the demand for those products and services can fall, reducing interest and fee revenue and earnings. An economic downturn can also hurt the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, causing higher loan losses. Several factors could cause the economy to slow down or even recede, including higher energy costs, higher interest rates, reduced consumer or corporate spending, declining home values, natural disasters, terrorist activities, military conflicts, and the normal cyclical nature of the economy. Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, and incorrect estimates and assumptions by management in connection with the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements could materially affect the reported amounts of asset and liabilities, the reported amounts of income and expenses, and related disclosures. The Company’s accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Several of the Company’s accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies”. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB and/or the SEC) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond the Company’s control, can be hard to predict, and could materially impact how the Company reports its financial condition and results of operations. The Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case resulting in the Company potentially restating prior period financial statements that could potentially be material. 25 Table of Contents The Company’s future results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. The outcome of legal proceedings may differ from the Company’s expectations because the outcomes of litigation, including regulatory matters, are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead the Company to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement, or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows in any particular period. The market price of the Company’s Class A common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors. From January 1, 2008 to February 27, 2009, the closing daily sales price of the Company’s Class A common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $4.91 per share to a high of $16.06 per share. The Company expects the Class A common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond the Company’s control. These factors include: • Changes in interest rates and credit market conditions affecting the cost and availability of financing for the Company’s student loan assets • Changes in the education financing regulatory framework • Changes in demand for education financing or other products and services that the Company offers • Variations in the Company’s quarterly operating results • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts • Changes in market valuations of comparable companies • Future sales of the Company’s Class A common stock In addition, in May 2008 the Company announced that it was temporarily suspending its quarterly dividend payments of $0.07 per share on its Class A and Class B common stock. The Company will continue to evaluate its dividend policy, but the payment of future dividends remains in the discretion of the Company’s board of directors and will continue to depend on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors. In addition, the payment of dividends is subject to the terms of certain other outstanding securities issued by the Company. The Company does not currently anticipate resuming the payment of dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future. The Company may not meet the expectations of shareholders and/or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock could decline as a result. Negative publicity that may be associated with the student lending industry, including negative publicity about the Company, may harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect operating results. During 2007 and 2008, the student lending industry was the subject of various investigations and reports. The publicity associated with these investigations and reports may have a negative impact on the Company’s reputation. To the extent that potential or existing customers decide not to utilize the Company’s products or services as a result of such publicity, the Company’s operating results may be adversely affected. If management does not effectively execute the Company’s restructuring objectives to reduce infrastructure costs and reposition the Company in the education market place, it could adversely affect the Company’s customers, operations, revenue, and ability to compete. As the result of FFEL Program regulation changes, financial market disruption, and an ongoing economic recession, the Company has implemented restructuring objectives to reduce infrastructure costs and reposition itself in the education market place. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007 and continuing into 2009, the Company has executed initiatives that created efficiencies within its asset generation business and decreased operating expenses through a reduction in workforce, realignment of operating facilities, and restructuring of operating systems and system support. If management is unable to successfully implement the Company’s reorganization objectives or if these objectives do not have the desired effects or result in the projected efficiencies, the Company may incur additional or unexpected expenses, reputation damage, or loss of customers which would adversely affect the Company’s operations and revenues. 26 Table of Contents Failures in the Company’s information technology system could materially disrupt its business. The Company’s servicing and operating processes are highly dependent upon its information technology system infrastructure, and the Company faces the risk of business disruption if failures in its information systems occur, which could have a material impact upon its business and operations. The Company depends heavily on its own computer-based data processing systems in servicing both its own student loans and those of third-party servicing customers and providing tuition payment and campus commerce transactions and lead generation products and services. The Company regularly backs up its data and maintains detailed disaster recovery plans. A major physical disaster or other calamity that causes significant damage to information systems could adversely affect the Company’s business. Additionally, loss of information systems for a sustained period of time could have a negative impact on the Company’s performance and ultimately on cash flow in the event the Company were unable to process transactions and/or provide services to customers. A compromise of customer data could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company, on its own behalf and on behalf of other entities, stores a significant amount of personal data about the customers to whom the Company provides services. If access to customer data were compromised through breach of its systems, fraud, or otherwise, the Company could suffer reputation damage, loss of customers, and unexpected financial costs. Exposure related to certain tax issues could decrease the Company’s net income. A corporation is considered to be a “personal holding company” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), if (1) at least 60% of its adjusted ordinary gross income is “personal holding company income” (generally, passive income) and (2) at any time during the last half of the taxable year more than half, by value, of its stock is owned by five or fewer individuals, as determined under attribution rules of the Code. If both of these tests are met, a personal holding company is subject to an additional tax on its undistributed personal holding company income, currently at a 15% rate. Five or fewer individuals hold more than half the value of the Company’s stock. In June 2003, the Company submitted a request for a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service seeking a determination that its federally guaranteed student loans qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code. Such a determination would have assured the Company that holding such loans does not make it a personal holding company. Based on its historical practice of not issuing private letter rulings concerning matters that it considers to be primarily factual, however, the Internal Revenue Service has indicated that it will not issue the requested ruling, taking no position on the merits of the legal issue. So long as more than half of the Company’s value continues to be held by five or fewer individuals, if it were to be determined that some portion of its federally guaranteed student loans does not qualify as assets of a “lending or finance business,” as defined in the Code, the Company could become subject to personal holding company tax on its undistributed personal holding company income. The Company continues to believe that neither Nelnet, Inc. nor any of its subsidiaries is a personal holding company. However, even if Nelnet, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries was determined to be a personal holding company, the Company believes that by utilizing intercompany distributions, it could eliminate or substantially eliminate its exposure to personal holding company taxes, although it cannot assure that this will be the case. The Company is subject to federal and state income tax laws and regulations. Income tax regulations are often complex and require interpretation. Changes in income tax regulations could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. If states enact legislation, alter apportionment methodologies, or aggressively apply the income tax nexus standards, the Company may become subject to additional state taxes. The applicability and taxation on the earnings from intangible personal property has been the subject of state audits and litigation with state taxing authorities and tax policy debates by various state legislatures. As the U.S. Congress and U.S. Supreme Court have not provided clear guidance in this regard, conflicting state laws and court decisions create tremendous uncertainty and expense for taxpayers conducting interstate commerce. From time to time, the Company engages in transactions in which the tax consequences may be subject to uncertainty. Examples of such transactions include asset and business acquisitions and dispositions, financing transactions, apportionment, nexus standards, and income recognition. Significant judgment is required in assessing and estimating the tax consequences of these transactions. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on the interpretation of tax laws and regulations. In the normal course of business, the Company’s tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, and Financial Accounting Standards Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, the Company establishes reserves for tax contingencies related to deductions and credits that it may be unable to sustain. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts ultimately owed are recorded in the period they become known. Adjustments to the Company’s reserves could have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. 27 Table of Contents Transactions with affiliates and potential conflicts of interest of certain of the Company’s officers and directors, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, pose risks to the Company’s shareholders that the Company may not enter into transactions on the same terms that the Company could receive from unrelated third-parties. The Company has entered into certain contractual arrangements with entities controlled by Michael S. Dunlap, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, and members of his family and, to a lesser extent, with entities in which other directors and members of management hold equity interests or board or management positions. Such arrangements constitute a significant portion of the Company’s business and include cash management activities and sales of student loans and student loan origination rights by such affiliates to the Company. These arrangements may present potential conflicts of interest. Many of these arrangements are with Union Bank, in which Mr. Dunlap owns an indirect interest and of which he serves as a member of the Board of Directors. The Company intends to maintain its relationship with Union Bank, which management believes provides substantial benefits to the Company, although there can be no assurance that any transactions between the Company and entities controlled by Mr. Dunlap, his family, and/or other officers and directors of the Company are, or in the future will be, on terms that are no less favorable than what could be obtained from an unrelated third party. The Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer owns a substantial percentage of the Company’s Class A and Class B common stock and is able to control all matters subject to a shareholder vote. Michael S. Dunlap, the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and a principal shareholder, beneficially owns a substantial percentage of the Company’s outstanding shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Each share of Class A common stock has one vote and each share of Class B common stock has 10 votes on all matters to be voted upon by the Company’s shareholders. As a result, Mr. Dunlap is able to control all matters requiring approval by the Company’s shareholders, including the election of all members of the Board of Directors, and may do so in a manner with which other shareholders may not agree or which they may not consider to be in the best interest of other shareholders. In addition, Stephen F. Butterfield, the Company’s Vice Chairman, owns a substantial number of shares of Class B common stock. Managing assets for third parties has inherent risks that, if not properly managed, could negatively affect the Company’s business. As part of the Company’s Loan and Guaranty Servicing and other Fee Based business segments, the Company manages loan portfolios and transfers funds for third party customers. A compromise of security surrounding loan portfolio and cash management processes or mismanagement of customer assets could lead to litigation, fraud, reputation damage, and unanticipated operating costs that could affect the Company’s overall business. The Company may face operational risks from its reliance on vendors to complete specific business operations. The Company relies on outside vendors to provide key components of business operations such as internet connections and network access. Disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor or any failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes of use could hurt the Company’s ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise to conduct business. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor’s services. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 