D. Risk Factors Set out below are certain risk factors that could materially adversely affect our cash flow, operating results or financial condition. Investors should carefully consider these risk factors before making investment decisions involving our Common Shares. Our Business Has a Going Concern Uncertainty The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that JED will be able to realize assets and discharge liabilities in the normal course of business for the foreseeable future. The Company has incurred a net loss of $74,152,821 and realized a negative cash flow from operating activities of $4,927,696 for the year ended December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, the Company had a working capital deficiency of $3,033,553 and a stockholder’s deficiency of $42,250,864. The Company requires additional funds to maintain operations and discharge liabilities as they become due, as further discussed below. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As at December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded significant non-cash write-downs of its oil and gas assets totaling $49,570,895 relating to impairments of Canadian assets and $16,444,640 relating to impairments of U.S. assets. This has contributed to substantial losses and an accumulated deficit of $85,321,927. These write-downs do not have an immediate cash flow effect, however, they do reflect the ability of the underlying assets to produce cash flow in the future based on current year-end pricing for oil and gas. Management anticipates that cash flow generated by operations from these assets over the remaining term of the Convertible Notes Payable and the Convertible Preferred Shares Payable will not meet the amount required to repay these obligations as they become due. Therefore, the Company has recently offered many of the Company’s oil and gas assets for sale with a plan to re-invest the proceeds into new drilling activity in order to create 2 Table of Contents additional value and cash flow. Additionally, management has been actively responding to these issues by cutting costs where possible including reducing staff . A rationalization of the assets has yielded sales which have been used to pay down liabilities incurred to develop the assets. The Convertible Notes Payable and Convertible Preferred Shares outstanding are due to be repaid February 1, 2008 unless they are converted to common shares. The conversion price for the shares is in excess of the current market share price. Therefore the Company will require the support of the Note holders and Preferred Shareholders to continue as a going concern. The outcome of these matters is dependant on factors outside of the Company’s control and cannot be predicted at this time. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability or classification of assets or the amounts or classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Our Limited Number of Staff Constitutes a Material Weakness in our Internal Controls Due to the limited number of staff at the Company, there is an inherent weakness in the system of internal controls due to our inability to achieve segregation of duties across all significant financial close and reporting processes. Our limited number of staff also results in weaknesses with respect to accounting for complex and non-routine accounting transactions as the Company does not have a sufficient number of finance personnel with technical accounting knowledge to address all complex and non-routine accounting matters that may arise, or may not recognize, or act on information due to their lack of technical accounting knowledge. As a result of these weaknesses there is no guarantee that a material misstatement would not be prevented or detected. These items have been classified as material weaknesses. Management and Board review are utilized to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in financial reporting to ensure internal controls remain effective and we will be able to remediate these weaknesses by expanding the number of individuals in our financial reporting area as we grow the Company. We received a notice of noncompliance from the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”), and received an extension from AMEX until October 13, 2008. If we cannot demonstrate progress towards compliance over the extension period or achieve compliance with AMEX rules by October 13, 2008, we may be delisted from AMEX. In April 2007, JED received notice from AMEX that at December 31, 2006, the Company was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) of the AMEX Company Guide which requires that a listed company must have either $2.0 million in shareholders’ equity or not have sustained losses from continuing operations or net losses in two out of three of its most recent fiscal years. In June 2007, AMEX approved JED’s plan to come back into compliance and granted JED an extension until October 13, 2008 to achieve such compliance. JED will continue its listing during the extension, subject to periodic review. In the event that JED does not make progress towards compliance consist with its approved plan, or is not in compliance at the end of the plan period, the Company may be subject to delisting proceedings by AMEX. Our results of operations and financial condition are dependent on the prices received for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices have fluctuated widely during recent years and are subject to fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply, demand, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, worldwide political instability, foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the level of consumer product demand, government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels and the overall economic environment. Any decline in crude oil or natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, borrowing ability, reserves and the level of expenditures for the development of oil and natural gas reserves. Currently, the Company does not have any hedges in place, however we may use financial derivative instruments and other hedging mechanisms to try to limit a portion of the adverse effects resulting from changes in natural gas and oil commodity prices. To the extent we hedge our commodity price exposure, we forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices were to increase. In addition, our commodity hedging activities could expose us to losses. Such losses could occur under various circumstances, including where the other party to a hedge does not perform its obligations under 3 Table of Contents the hedge agreement, the hedge is imperfect or our hedging policies and procedures are not followed. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that such hedging transactions will fully offset the risks of changes in commodities prices. In addition, we regularly assess the carrying value of our assets in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles under the full cost method. If oil and natural gas prices become depressed or decline, the carrying value of our assets could be subject to downward revision. This occurred in the third quarter of 2006. An increase in operating costs or a decline in our production level could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and, therefore, could affect the market price of the Common Shares. Higher operating costs for our underlying properties will directly decrease the amount of cash flow received by JED. Electricity, chemicals, supplies, reclamation and abandonment and labour costs are a few of the operating costs that are susceptible to material fluctuation. The level of production from our existing properties may decline at rates greater than anticipated due to unforeseen circumstances, many of which are beyond our control. A significant decline in our production could result in materially lower revenues and cash flow. Our production levels will also decline as we sell production in accordance with our business plan and strategy. A decline in our ability to market our oil and natural gas production could have a material adverse effect on production levels or on the price that we received for our production which, in turn, could affect the market price of our Common Shares. Our business depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Canadian federal and provincial, as well as United States federal and state, regulation of oil and gas production, processing and transportation, tax and energy policies, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and demand could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors change and inhibit the marketing of our production, overall production or realized prices may decline. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our business, and could affect the market price of our Common Shares. The price that we receive for a majority of our oil and natural gas is based on United States dollar denominated benchmarks, and therefore the price that we receive in Canadian dollars is affected by the exchange rate between the two currencies. A material increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the United States dollar may negatively impact net production revenue by decreasing the Canadian dollars received for a given United States dollar price. We could be subject to unfavourable price changes to the extent that we have engaged, or in the future engage, in risk management activities related to foreign exchange rates, through entry into forward foreign exchange contracts or otherwise. Actual reserves will vary from reserve estimates, and those variations could be material, and affect the market price of our Common Shares. The reserve and recovery information contained in the independent engineering report prepared by McDaniel & Associates (“McDaniel”) relating to our reserves is only an estimate and the actual production and ultimate reserves from our properties may be greater or less than the estimates prepared by McDaniel. The value of our Common Shares depends upon, among other things, the reserves attributable to our properties. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual reserves attributable to our properties will vary from estimates, and those variations may be material. The reserve figures contained herein are only estimates. A number of factors are considered and a number of assumptions are made when estimating reserves. These factors and assumptions include, among others: • historical production in the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas; • future commodity prices, production and development costs, royalties and capital expenditures; • initial production rates; 4 Table of Contents • production decline rates; • ultimate recovery of reserves; • success of future development activities; • marketability of production; • effects of government regulation; and • other government levies that may be imposed over the producing life of reserves. Reserve estimates are based on the relevant factors, assumptions and prices on the date the relevant evaluations were prepared. Many of these factors are subject to change and are beyond our control. If these factors, assumptions and prices prove to be inaccurate, actual results may vary materially from reserve estimates. If we expand our operations beyond oil and natural gas production in western Canada and the western United States we may face new challenges and risks, and if we were unsuccessful in managing these challenges and risks, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, which could affect the market price of our Common Shares. Our operations and expertise are currently focused on conventional oil and gas production and development in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin and the Rocky Mountain states of the U.S. In the future, we may acquire oil and gas properties outside of this geographic area. In addition, JED could acquire other energy related assets, such as oil and natural gas processing plants or pipelines. Expansion of our activities into new areas may present challenges and risks that we have not faced in the past. If we do not manage these challenges and risks successfully, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In determining the purchase price of acquisitions, we rely on both internal and external assessments relating to estimates of reserves that may prove to be materially inaccurate. Such reliance could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. The price we are willing to pay for reserve acquisitions is based largely on estimates of the reserves to be acquired. Actual reserves could vary materially from these estimates. Consequently, the reserves we acquire may be less than expected, which could adversely impact cash flows. An initial assessment of an acquisition may be based on a report by engineers or firms of engineers that have different evaluation methods and approaches than those of our engineers, and these initial assessments may differ significantly from our subsequent assessments. Some of our properties are not operated by us and, therefore, results of operations may be adversely affected by the failure of third-party operators, which could affect the market price of our Common Shares. The continuing production from a property, and to some extent the marketing of that production, is dependent upon the ability of the operators of those properties. At December 31, 2006, approximately 9% of our daily production was from properties operated by third parties. To the extent a third-party operator fails to perform its functions efficiently or becomes insolvent, our revenue may be reduced. Third party operators also make estimates of future capital expenditures more difficult. Further, the operating agreements which govern the properties not operated by us typically require the operator to conduct operations in a good and “workmanlike” manner. These operating agreements generally provide, however, that the operator has no liability to the other non-operating working interest owners for losses sustained or liabilities incurred, except for liabilities that may result from gross negligence or wilful misconduct. 5 Table of Contents Delays in business operations could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. In addition to the usual delays in payment by purchasers of oil and natural gas to the operators of our properties, and the delays of those operators in remitting payment to us, payments between any of these parties may also be delayed by: • restrictions imposed by lenders; • accounting delays; • delays in the sale or delivery of products; • delays in the connection of wells to a gathering system; • blowouts or other accidents; • adjustments for prior periods; • recovery by the operator of expenses incurred in the operation of the properties; or • the establishment by the operator of reserves for these expenses. Any of these delays could expose us to additional third party credit risks. We may, from time to time, finance a significant portion of our operations through debt. Our indebtedness could affect the market price of our Common Shares. Variations in interest rates and scheduled principal repayments could result in significant changes to the amount of the cash flow required to be applied to debt. The agreements governing our credit facility provide that if we are in default under the credit facility, exceed certain borrowing thresholds or fail to comply with certain covenants, we must repay the indebtedness at an accelerated rate. The agreements governing our 10% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes provide that if we are in default or fail to comply with certain covenants, we can be required to immediately redeem the notes at 120% of their value. Our lenders have been provided with a security interest in substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to pay the debt service charges or otherwise commit an event of default, such as bankruptcy, our lenders may foreclose on and sell the properties. The proceeds of any sale would be applied to satisfy amounts owed to the creditors. Only after the proceeds of that sale were applied towards the debt would the remainder, if any, be available for distribution to shareholders. Our current credit facility and any replacement credit facility may not provide sufficient liquidity. The amounts available under our existing credit facility may not be sufficient for future operations, or we may not be able to obtain additional financing on economic terms attractive to us, if at all. Our current credit facility consists of a revolving operating demand loan. Repayment of all outstanding amounts may be demanded at any time. If this occurs, we may need to obtain alternate financing. Any failure to obtain suitable replacement financing may have a material adverse effect on our business. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We compete for capital, acquisitions of reserves, undeveloped lands, skilled personnel, access to drilling rigs, service rigs and other equipment, access to processing facilities, pipeline and refining capacity and in many other respects with a substantial number of other organizations, many of which may have greater technical and financial resources than we do. Some of these organizations not only explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas but also carry on refining operations and market oil and other products on a worldwide basis. As a result of these complementary activities, some of our competitors may have greater and more diverse competitive resources to draw on than we do. Given the highly competitive nature of the oil and natural gas industry, this could adversely affect the market price of our Common Shares. 6 Table of Contents The industry in which we operate exposes us to potential liabilities that may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to all of the risks associated with the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties, including the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, and the production and transportation of oil and natural gas. These risks include encountering unexpected formations or pressures, premature declines of reservoirs, blow-outs, equipment failures and other accidents, cratering, sour gas releases, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, adverse weather conditions, pollution, other environmental risks, fires and spills. A number of these risks could result in personal injury, loss of life, or environmental and other damage to our property or the property of others. We cannot fully protect against all of these risks, nor are all of these risks insurable. We may become liable for damages arising from these events against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons. Any costs incurred to repair these damages or pay these liabilities would reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. The operation of oil and natural gas wells could subject us to environmental claims and liability. The oil and natural gas industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation pursuant to local, provincial and federal legislation. A breach of that legislation may result in the imposition of fines or the issuance of “clean up” orders. Legislation regulating the oil and natural gas industry may be changed to impose higher standards and potentially more costly obligations. For example, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nation’s Framework Convention on Climate Change, known as the Kyoto Protocol, was ratified by the Canadian government in December, 2002 and will require, among other things, significant reductions in greenhouse gases. The impact of the Kyoto Protocol on us is uncertain and may result in significant future additional costs for our operations. Although we record a provision in our financial statements relating to our estimated future environmental and reclamation obligations, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy our actual future environmental and reclamation obligations. We are not fully insured against certain environmental risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. In particular, insurance against risks from environmental pollution occurring over time (as opposed to sudden and catastrophic damages) is not available on economically reasonable terms. Accordingly, our properties may be subject to liability due to hazards that cannot be insured against, or that have not been insured against due to prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. Any site reclamation or abandonment costs actually incurred in the ordinary course of business in a specific period will be funded out of cash flow and, therefore, will reduce the amounts available for distribution to Shareholders. Should we be unable to fully fund the cost of remedying an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. Lower crude oil and natural gas prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write-downs. Any write-downs could materially affect the value of your investment. We use the “full cost” method of accounting for petroleum and natural gas properties. All costs related to the exploration for and the development of oil and gas reserves are capitalized into two geographic cost centres representing JED’s activity which are undertaken in Canada and the U.S. Costs capitalized include land acquisition costs, geological and geophysical expenditures, lease rentals on undeveloped properties and costs of drilling productive and non-productive wells. Proceeds from the disposal of properties are applied as a reduction of cost without recognition of a gain or loss except where such disposals involve a significant portion of the Company’s proved reserves. Capitalized costs are depleted and depreciated using the unit-of-production method based on the estimated gross proven oil and natural gas reserves before royalties as determined by independent engineers. Units of natural gas are converted into barrels of oil equivalents on a relative energy content basis. Capitalized costs, net of accumulated depletion and depreciation, are limited to estimated future net revenues from proven reserves, based on year-end prices, discounted at 10%. The amounts recorded for depletion and depreciation and the provision for future abandonment and site restoration costs are based on estimates of proven reserves and future costs. The recoverable value of capital assets is based on a number of factors including the estimated proven reserves and future costs. By their nature, these estimates are subject to measurement uncertainty and the impact on financial statements of future periods could be material. 7 Table of Contents We perform a cost recovery ceiling test which limits net capitalized costs to the estimated future net revenue from proven oil and gas reserves plus the cost of unproven properties less impairment, using year-end prices or average prices. Under U.S. GAAP, companies using the “full cost” method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities perform a ceiling test using discounted estimated future net revenue from proven oil and gas reserves with a discount factor of 10%. Prices used in the U.S. GAAP ceiling tests performed for this reconciliation were those in effect at the applicable year-end. Financing and administration costs are excluded from the calculation under U.S. GAAP. At December 31, 2006 JED realized a U.S. GAAP ceiling test write-down of $5,044,975. At September 30, 2006 JED realized a U.S. GAAP ceiling test write-down of $60,970,560. There were no such write-downs required at December 31, 2005. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of crude oil and natural gas properties increases when crude oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. We may experience additional ceiling test write-downs in the future. Unforeseen title defects may result in a loss of entitlement to production and reserves. Although we conduct title reviews in accordance with industry practice prior to any purchase of resource assets, such reviews do not guarantee that an unforeseen defect in the chain of title will not arise and defeat our title to the purchased assets. If such a defect were to occur, our entitlement to the production from such purchased assets could be jeopardized. Aboriginal Land Claims The economic impact on us of claims of aboriginal title is unknown. Aboriginal people have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada. We are unable to assess the effect, if any, that any such claim would have on our business and operations. Changes in tax and other laws may adversely affect Shareholders. Income tax laws, other laws or government incentive programs relating to the oil and gas industry may in the future be changed or interpreted in a manner that adversely affects JED and our Shareholders. Tax authorities having jurisdiction over JED or the Shareholders may disagree with the manner in which we calculate our income for tax purposes or could change their administrative practices to our detriment or the detriment of Shareholders. Changes in market-based factors may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Shares. The market price of our Common Shares is primarily a function of the value of our properties. The market price of our Common Shares is therefore sensitive to a variety of market based factors, including, but not limited to, interest rates and the comparability of our Common Shares to other securities. Any changes in these market-based factors may adversely affect the trading price of the Common Shares. Our operations are dependent on our management and staff, and loss of key management and other personnel could impact our business. Shareholders are entirely dependent on the management of JED with respect to the acquisition of oil and gas properties and assets, the development and acquisition of additional reserves and the management and administration of all matters relating to our oil and natural gas properties. The loss of the services of key individuals who currently comprise the management team could have a detrimental effect on JED. Investors should carefully consider whether they are willing to rely on the existing management before investing in the Common Shares. There may be future dilution. One of our objectives is to continually add to our reserves through acquisitions and through development. Our success is, in part, dependent on our ability to raise capital from time to time by selling additional Common Shares. Shareholders will suffer dilution as a result of these offerings if, for example, the cash flow, production or reserves from the acquired assets do not reflect the additional number of Common Shares issued to acquire those assets. Shareholders may also suffer dilution in connection with future issuances of Common Shares to effect acquisitions. 8 Table of Contents There may not always be an active trading market for the Common Shares. While there is currently an active trading market for our Common Shares in the United States and Canada, we cannot guarantee that an active trading market will be sustained. We may undertake acquisitions that could limit our ability to manage and maintain our business, result in adverse accounting treatment and are difficult to integrate into our business. Any of these events could result in a material change in our liquidity, impair our ability to pay dividends and could adversely affect the value of your investment. A component of future growth will depend on the ability to identify, negotiate, and acquire additional companies and assets that complement or expand existing operations. However we may be unable to complete any acquisitions, or any acquisitions we may complete may not enhance our business. Any acquisitions could subject us to a number of risks, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; if needed; • inability to establish uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition; and • inability to integrate the acquired company’s assets into our organization effectively. 