Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that May Affect Our Future Results We are subject to many risks and uncertainties (including, without limitation, our results of operations and cash flows). Some of the risks and uncertainties that may cause our financial performance, business or operations to vary or that may materially or adversely affect our financial performance are discussed below. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that currently are not known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may adversely affect our financial performance, business or operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. As of April 28, 2013, we had a total of $3,985.1 million of indebtedness, primarily relating to $1,300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.625% Senior Notes due 2019 (the “Notes”) and $2,681.9 million outstanding under a senior secured term loan credit agreement, dated as of March 8, 2011 (the “Term Loan Facility”). Additionally, as of April 28, 2013, we had $445.5 million of availability under a $750 million senior secured asset-based revolving facility (the “ABL Facility” and, together with the Term Loan Facility, the “Credit Facilities”). Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences, such as: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of funding growth, working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other cash requirements; • reducing our flexibility to adjust to changing business conditions or obtain additional financing; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facilities, are at variable rates of interest. If our cash from operations is not sufficient to meet our operating needs, expenditures and debt service obligations, our business would be adversely impacted. Additionally, we may be required to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow additional money or raise equity. We may be unable to take such actions on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to generate cash to meet our operating needs, expenditures and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance and financial condition, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including potential changes in costs, pricing, the success of product innovation and marketing, pressure from competitors, consumer preferences and other matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including this “Risk Factors” section). If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and other cash needs, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, 11 Table of Contents seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. The Credit Facilities and indenture governing the Notes may restrict our ability to take these actions and we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our debt ratings by any of the major rating agencies, which could result from our financial performance, acquisitions or other factors, could also negatively impact our access to additional debt financing (including leasing) or refinancing on favorable terms, or at all. Even if we are successful in taking any such alternative actions, such actions may materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and such actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we would be in default and holders of the Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the ABL Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, and our secured lenders under the ABL Facility and Term Loan Facility could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Restrictive covenants in the Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes may restrict our operational flexibility. If we fail to comply with these restrictions, we may be required to repay our debt, which would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes include certain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best interests, such as making strategic acquisitions, divestitures or investments or otherwise pursuing business opportunities that may be in our interests. These covenants include restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, stock and warrants, options or other rights to acquire stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; • make loans, investments and other restricted payments; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • incur liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • alter the businesses we conduct; • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the ABL Facility requires that we maintain an adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0 for periods during which we have borrowed a significant majority of the available amounts under the ABL Facility. Our ability to meet this financial ratio will depend upon our future performance and may be affected by events beyond our control (including factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section). We may not be able to comply with this ratio. A breach of the covenants in the Credit Facilities or the indenture governing the Notes could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the Credit Facilities would permit the lenders under our ABL Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under the Credit Facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness, which would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Despite our significant indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition and business described above. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. For example, as of April 28, 2013, we had $445.5 million of availability under our ABL Facility. Although the Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes contain restrictions on the 12 Table of Contents incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, our ABL Facility could be increased, subject only to the consent of the new or existing lenders providing such increases, such that the aggregate principal amount of commitments under the ABL Facility does not exceed $1,000.0 million. We also can incur up to an additional $500.0 million of secured indebtedness under the Term Loan Facility if certain specified conditions are met, subject also to the consent of the new or existing lenders providing such additional loans. If our current debt level increases, the related risks we face could intensify. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. Assuming indebtedness of $3,127.4 million under our Credit Facilities (reflecting the $2,681.9 million outstanding under the Term Loan Facility and the $445.5 million available under the ABL Facility as of April 28, 2013), and taking into account our interest rate swaps in effect as of April 28, 2013 as described under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” each quarter point change in interest rates would result in an $1.1 million change in annual interest expense on our indebtedness under the ABL Facility and, if interest rates rise above the LIBOR floor of 1.00%, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $3.7 million change in annual interest expense on our indebtedness under the Term Loan Facility. In the future, we may enter into additional interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into (including our existing swaps) may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk, may prove disadvantageous, or may create additional risks, including risks discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. If the financial institutions that are part of the syndicate of our ABL Facility fail to extend credit under our facility or reduce the borrowing base under our ABL Facility, our liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may use the ABL Facility, in part, to fund our seasonal working capital needs, and accordingly, our need to draw on the ABL Facility may fluctuate significantly during the year. Each financial institution that is part of the syndicate for our ABL Facility is responsible on a several, but not joint, basis for providing a portion of the loans to be made under our facility. If any participant or group of participants with a significant portion of the commitments in our ABL Facility fails to satisfy its or their respective obligations to extend credit under the facility and we are unable to find a replacement for such participant or participants on a timely basis (if at all), our liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, the financial institutions that are part of the syndicate of our ABL Facility may reduce the borrowing base under our ABL Facility in certain circumstances. If our liquidity under our ABL Facility is materially adversely impacted, particularly during the harvesting and packing months of June through October when we typically have our highest cash needs, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The pet product and food product categories in which we participate are highly competitive and, if we are not able to compete effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The pet product and food product categories in which we participate are highly competitive. There are numerous brands and products that compete for shelf space and sales, with competition based primarily upon brand recognition and loyalty, product packaging, quality and innovation, taste, nutrition, breadth of product line, price and convenience. We compete with a significant number of companies of varying sizes, including divisions or subsidiaries of larger companies. Our branded products face strong competition from private label products that are generally sold at lower prices, imports, other national and regional brands and fresh and frozen alternatives. The impact of price gaps between our products and private label products may be particularly acute in our Consumer Products segment, where significant price gaps may result in share erosion and harm our business. A number of our competitors have broader product lines, substantially greater financial and other resources and/or lower fixed costs than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing new or enhanced products that are more attractive to customers or consumers than ours. These competitors may also prove to be more successful in marketing and selling their products than we are; and may be better able to increase prices to reflect cost pressures. We may not compete successfully with these other companies or maintain or grow the distribution of our products. We cannot predict the pricing or promotional activities of our competitors or whether they will have a negative effect on us. Many of our competitors engage in aggressive pricing and promotional activities. There are competitive pressures and other factors which could cause our products to lose market share or decline in sales or result in significant price or margin erosion, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully introduce new products, reposition existing products or anticipate changes in pet or consumer preferences, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our future business and financial performance depend, in part, on our ability to successfully introduce new products and improved products, reposition existing products, and anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing tastes, dietary habits and trends and product packaging preferences of consumers and their pets in the market categories in which we compete. Innovation is particularly important in our Pet Products segment, where innovation plays a significant role in the competitive landscape and is a significant driver of sales and share growth in the pet food and pet snacks categories in which we compete. We cannot be certain that opportunities for product innovation will exist or that we will be able to successfully introduce new products or reposition existing products. We incur significant development and marketing costs in connection with the introduction of new products or repositioning of existing products. Successfully launching and selling new products puts pressure on our sales and marketing resources, and we may fail to invest sufficient funds behind a new product introduction to make it successful. If customers and consumers do not accept a new product, then the introduction of a new product can reduce our operating income as introduction costs, including slotting fees, may exceed revenues. If we are not able to anticipate, identify or develop and market products that respond to changes in pet or consumer preferences or if our new product introductions or repositioned products fail to gain consumer acceptance, we may not grow our business as anticipated, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part upon our ability to persuade consumers to purchase our branded products versus lower-priced branded and private label offerings. During economic downturns, consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price premium for our branded products and may shift purchases to lower-priced or other value offerings, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our branded products generally command a price premium as compared to the prices of the private label products with which they compete. Additionally, our branded products in our Consumer Products segment generally command a price premium as compared to the prices of the branded products with which they compete. The current premium for our products may limit our ability to effectively implement price increases. Additionally, these price premiums may increase in the future, particularly if we implement price increases. The willingness of consumers to pay a price premium for our branded products depends on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our marketing programs, the continuing strength of our brands, product innovation and general economic conditions. During periods of challenging economic conditions, consumers may be less willing or able to pay a price differential for our branded products, notwithstanding our marketing programs or the strength of our brands, and may shift purchases away from our branded products to lower-priced offerings or forgo purchases of our products altogether. If the price premium for our branded products exceeds the amount consumers are willing to pay, whether due to economic conditions or otherwise, our sales would suffer and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition consumers may migrate to higher-value, larger-sized packages of our branded products (which tend to have lower margins than our smaller-sized offerings), which could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain or increase prices for our products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We rely in part on price increases to neutralize cost increases and improve the profitability of our business. Our ability to effectively implement price increases or otherwise raise prices for our products can be affected by a number of factors, including competition, aggregate industry supply, category limitations, market demand and economic conditions, including inflationary pressures. During challenging economic times, our ability to increase the prices of our products may be particularly constrained. Additionally, customers may pressure us to rescind price increases that we have announced or already implemented (either through a change in list price or increased promotional activity). If we are unable to maintain or increase prices for our products (or must increase promotional activity), our results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, price increases generally result in volume losses, as consumers purchase fewer units. If such losses (also referred to as the elasticity impact) are greater than expected or if we lose distribution due to a price increase (which may result from a customer response or otherwise), our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully implement initiatives to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. Failure to implement such initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations. Because our ability to effectively implement price increases for our products can be affected by factors outside of our control, our profitability and growth depend significantly on our efforts to control our operating costs. Because many of our costs, such as energy and logistics costs, packaging costs and ingredient, commodity and raw product costs, are affected by factors outside or substantially outside our control, we generally must seek to control or reduce costs through operating efficiency or other initiatives. If we are not able to identify and complete initiatives designed to control or reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost savings initiatives we have implemented to date, or any future cost-savings initiatives, do not generate expected cost savings, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The inputs, commodities, ingredients and other raw materials that we require are subject to price increases and shortages that could adversely affect our results of operations. The primary inputs, commodities, ingredients and other raw materials that we use include energy (including natural gas), fuel, packaging, fruits, vegetables, tomatoes, grains (including corn), sugar, spices, meats, meat by-products, soybean meal, water, fats, oils and chemicals. Prices for these and other items we use may be volatile and we may experience shortages in these items due to factors beyond our control, such as commodity market fluctuations, availability of supply, increased demand (whether for the item we require or for other items, which in turn impacts the item we require), weather conditions, natural disasters, currency fluctuations, governmental regulations (including import restrictions), agricultural programs or issues, energy programs, labor strikes and the financial health of our suppliers. Input, commodity, ingredient and other raw material price increases or shortages may result in higher costs or interrupt our production schedules, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Production delays could lead to reduced sales volumes and profitability as well as loss of market share. Higher costs could adversely impact our earnings. For example, fuel prices affect our transportation costs for both raw materials and finished product and natural gas prices also affect our production costs. If we are not able to implement our productivity initiatives or increase our product prices to offset price increases of our inputs, commodities, ingredients and other raw materials, as a result of consumer sensitivity to pricing or otherwise, or if sales volumes decline due to price increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our competitors may be better able than we are to implement productivity initiatives or effect price increases or to otherwise pass along cost increases to their customers. Moreover, if we increase our prices in response to increased costs, we may need to increase marketing spending, including trade promotion spending, in order to retain our market share. Such increased marketing spending may significantly offset the benefits, if any, of any price increase and negatively impact our results of operations. Increases in logistics and other transportation-related costs could materially adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to competitively serve our customers depends on the cost and availability of reliable transportation. Logistics and other transportation related costs have a significant impact on our results of operations. We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to the market. They include ships, trucks, intermodals and railcars. Disruption to the timely supply of these services or increases in the cost of these services for any reason, including availability or cost of fuel, regulations affecting the industry, service failures by our third-party logistics service provider, availability of various modes of transportation, or natural disasters (which may impact the transportation infrastructure or demand for transportation services), could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. If our assessments and assumptions about commodity prices, as well as ingredient and other prices and interest and currency exchange rates, prove to be incorrect in connection with our hedging or forward-buy efforts or planning cycles, our costs may be greater than anticipated and our financial results could be adversely affected. Volatility in interest rates, commodities and other hedged items will impact our results of operations. We generally use commodity futures and options to reduce the price volatility associated with anticipated commodity purchases of corn, wheat and soybean meal used in the production of certain of our products. Additionally, we typically use hedging programs relating to interest rates, currency, natural gas and diesel fuel. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a discussion of our current hedging and derivatives programs. We may cease any of our current programs or use other hedging or derivative programs in the future. The extent of our hedges at any given time depends on our assessment of the markets for these commodities, diesel fuel, natural gas, and capital, including our assumptions about future prices, currency exchange rates and interest rates. For example, if we believe market prices for the commodities we use are unusually high, we may choose to hedge less, or even none, of our upcoming requirements. If we fail to hedge and prices, interest rates or currency exchange rates subsequently increase, or if we institute a hedge and prices, interest rates or currency exchange rates subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors’ costs and our financial results could be adversely affected. Additionally, changes in the value of our commodities and other derivatives accounted for as economic hedges are recorded directly as other income or expense. As of April 28, 2013, the Company had both cash flow hedges and economic hedges. Accordingly, volatility in interest rates, commodities and other hedged items associated with our economic hedges could result in volatility in our results of operations. The loss of a significant customer, certain actions by a significant customer or financial difficulties of a significant customer could adversely affect our results of operations. A relatively limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our total sales. During fiscal 2013, our top customer, Walmart (including Walmart’s stores and supercenters as well as SAM’S CLUB), represented approximately 35% of our overall list sales, which approximates our gross sales, and an even higher percentage of sales of our Pet Products segment. Our ten largest customers represented approximately 63% of our overall list sales. These percentages may increase if there is consolidation among existing food retailers or if mass merchandisers grow disproportionately to their competition. We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a small number of customers; however, there can be no assurance that these customers will continue to purchase our products in the same quantities as they have in the past. Our customers are generally not contractually 15 Table of Contents obligated to purchase from us. Changes in our customers’ strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry, shipping strategies, a shift of shelf space to or increased emphasis on private label products (including “store brands”), or a reduction in shelf space for core grocery items may adversely affect our sales. Requirements that may be imposed on us by our customers, such as sustainability, inventory management or product specification requirements, may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, especially during economic downturns, our customers may face financial difficulties, bankruptcy or other business disruptions that may impact their operations and their purchases from us and may affect their ability to pay us for products purchased from us. Customers may grow their inventory in anticipation of a price increase, or in anticipation of, or during, our promotional events, which typically provide for reduced prices during a specified time or other customer or consumer incentives. To the extent customers seek to reduce their usual or customary inventory levels or change their practices regarding purchases in excess of consumer consumption, our sales and results of operations would be adversely impacted in that period. If our sales of products to one or more of our significant customers are reduced, this reduction could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If ingredients or other raw materials we use in our products are contaminated, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We buy ingredients, commodities and other raw materials that we use in producing our products from third-party suppliers. If these materials are alleged or prove to include contaminants affecting the safety or quality of our products, we may need to find alternate materials for our products, delay production of our products, or discard or otherwise dispose of our products, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, if the presence of such contaminants are not alleged or discovered until after the affected product has been distributed, we may need to withdraw or recall the affected product and we may experience adverse publicity or product liability claims. In either case, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If our products are alleged to cause injury or illness or fail to comply with governmental regulations, we may suffer adverse public relations, need to recall our products and experience product liability claims. We may be exposed to product recalls, including voluntary recalls or withdrawals, and adverse public relations if our products are alleged to cause injury or illness or if we are alleged to have mislabeled or misbranded our products or otherwise violated governmental regulations. We may also voluntarily recall or withdraw products that we consider below our standards, whether for taste, appearance or otherwise, in order to protect our brand reputation. For example, in January 2013, we initiated a voluntary recall of certain of our Milo’s Kitchen dog treat products. Consumer or customer concerns (whether justified or not) regarding the safety of our products could adversely affect our business. A product recall or withdrawal could result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time, which could reduce profitability and cash flow. In addition, a product recall or withdrawal may require significant management attention. Product recalls, product liability claims (even if unmerited or unsuccessful), or any other events that cause consumers to no longer associate our brands with high quality and safe products may also result in adverse publicity, hurt the value of our brands, lead to a decline in consumer confidence in and demand for our products, and lead to increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our brands, business, results of operations and financial condition. We also may be subject to product liability claims and adverse public relations if consumption, use or opening of our products is alleged to cause injury or illness. While we carry product liability insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all liabilities we may incur in connection with product liability claims. For example, punitive damages are generally not covered by insurance. In addition, we may not be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance, obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all, or secure additional coverage (which may result in future product liability claims being uninsured). A product liability judgment against us or our agreement to settle a product liability claim could also result in substantial and unexpected expenditures, which would reduce profitability and cash flow. In addition, even if product liability claims against us are not successful or are not fully pursued, these claims could be costly and time-consuming and may require management to spend time defending the claims rather than operating our business. Transformative plans involve risk and may adversely affect our business and financial results. We currently have and may in the future contemplate and adopt plans intended to effect significant change within our Company. For example, in fiscal 2012, we implemented a new strategic plan for which we incurred costs and may incur future costs. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Strategy” for a description of the strategic plan. Our current strategic plan involves a number of initiatives which may tax our management resources. Our future plans, if any, may, but need not, involve closure or disposal of plants, distribution centers, businesses or other assets as well as headcount reductions or reductions in our number of product offerings, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Divesting plants, distribution centers, businesses or other assets or changes in strategy may also adversely impact our results of 16 Table of Contents operations due to related write-offs or the acceleration of remediation expenses or due to the loss of operating income that may be associated with any such disposed business. Additionally, restructuring or disposition efforts may divert management’s and other employees’ attention from other business concerns or may otherwise disrupt our business. We may be unable to complete dispositions we may desire to undertake at targeted prices, if at all, which may adversely impact our financial results and our ability to implement our business strategies. In addition, the success of our strategic plan and efforts to grow our business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, as well as sales, marketing (including innovation) and other personnel. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees can be intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where our headquarters is located. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business. We may not be successful in our future acquisition or other strategic transaction endeavors, if any, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We have historically engaged in acquisition activity and we may in the future engage in acquisitions or other strategic transactions, such as joint ventures or investments in other entities. We may be unable to identify suitable targets, opportunistic or otherwise, for acquisitions or other strategic transactions in the future. If we identify a suitable candidate, our ability to successfully implement the strategic transaction would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and to comply with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. If we need to obtain our lenders’ consent to a strategic transaction, they may refuse to provide such consent or condition their consent on our compliance with additional restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Strategic transactions, such as the Natural Balance Pet Foods, Inc. acquisition announced in May 2013, involve risks, including those associated with integrating the operations or maintaining the operations as separate (as applicable), financial reporting, disparate technologies and personnel of acquired companies, joint ventures or related companies; managing geographically dispersed operations, joint ventures or other strategic investments; the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; the inherent risks in entering markets, channels or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; unknown risks; and the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies, joint ventures or companies in which we may make strategic investments. We may not successfully integrate any businesses or technologies we may acquire or strategically develop in the future and may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits relating to any such strategic transactions. Strategic transactions may be expensive, time consuming and may strain our resources. Strategic transactions may not be accretive and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. We rely upon co-packers to provide our supply of some products. Any failure by co-packers to fulfill their obligations or any termination or renegotiation of our co-pack agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. We have a number of supply agreements with co-packers that require them to provide us with specific finished products. For some of our products, including each of canned pineapple, mandarins, some fruit in plastic containers, some fruit in glass jars, some dog snack and pet food products and some of our broth products, we essentially rely upon a single co-packer as our sole-source for the product. We also anticipate that we will rely on sole suppliers for future products. The failure for any reason of any such sole-source or other co-packer to fulfill its obligations under the applicable agreements with us or the termination or renegotiation of any such co-pack agreement could result in disruptions to our supply of finished goods and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In November 2011, in connection we believe with its desire to continue to supply us, but under a modified agreement, our primary pineapple supplier provided notice of termination under its co-pack agreement, which is cancelable upon three years’ notice. We continue to have discussions with our primary pineapple supplier to negotiate a new agreement. Additionally, from time to time, a co-packer may experience financial difficulties, bankruptcy or other business disruptions, which could disrupt our supply of finished goods or require that we incur additional expense by providing financial accommodations to the co-packer or taking other steps to seek to minimize or avoid supply disruption, such as establishing a new co-pack arrangement with another provider. During an economic downturn, our co-packers may be more susceptible to experiencing such financial difficulties, bankruptcies or other business disruptions. A new co-pack arrangement may not be available on terms as favorable to us as the existing co-pack arrangement, if at all. Government regulation, scrutiny, warnings and public perception could increase our costs of production and increase legal and regulatory expenses. Manufacturing, processing, labeling, packaging, storing and distributing pet products and food products are activities subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, as well as foreign regulation. In the United States, these aspects of our operations are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) and various state and local public health and agricultural agencies. On January 4, 2011, the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, which is intended to ensure food safety, was enacted. This Act provides direct recall authority to the FDA and includes a number of other 17 Table of Contents provisions designed to enhance food safety, including increased inspections by the FDA of domestic and foreign food facilities and increased review of food products imported into the United States. In addition to periodic government agency inspections affecting our operations generally, our operations, which produce meat and poultry products, are subject to mandatory continuous on-site inspections by the USDA. Complying with government regulation, including federal Country of Origin Labeling (“COOL”) requirements, can be costly or may otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, legislation has been adopted in various jurisdictions in the United States to regulate bisphenol-A (which is an odorless, tasteless food-grade chemical commonly used in the food industry to coat the interior of cans). Although the FDA currently allows the use of bisphenol-A in food packaging materials, public reports and concerns regarding the potential hazards of bisphenol-A could contribute to a perceived safety risk for products packaged using bisphenol-A. Discussions, stories, concerns and warnings regarding bisphenol-A appear in various media outlets and other venues. We may be adversely affected by this publicity as well as any future warnings, guidance, recommendations, developments or publicity. The FDA has called for further research on bisphenol-A and may in the future change its position on bisphenol-A. If legislation or other regulations are enacted restricting the use of bisphenol-A or requiring us to provide warnings regarding bisphenol-A under, for example, California’s Proposition 65, our costs of production could increase or our sales could be adversely affected. Alternatives to bisphenol-A may be costly or less effective, which could adversely affect our results of operations. There is no assurance that alternative packaging, if any, will maintain the current shelf life of our products. Other chemicals and substances that may be found, or may be purported to be found, in our products, including minerals such as lead, are already listed under Proposition 65. Additionally, other chemicals and substances that may be found in our products have also been proposed for listing under Proposition 65. Failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, Proposition 65, could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is also affected by import and export controls and similar laws and regulations, both in the United States and elsewhere. Issues such as national security or health and safety, which slow or otherwise restrict imports or exports, could adversely affect our business. In addition, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could require us to make material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect the way that we have historically operated our business. Our operating results depend, in part, on the sufficiency and effectiveness of our marketing and trade spending programs. In general, due to the highly competitive nature of the businesses in which we compete, we must execute effective and efficient marketing investments and trade spending programs with respect to our businesses overall to sustain our competitive position in our markets. Marketing investments may be costly. Additionally, we may, from time to time, change our marketing and trade spending strategies, including the timing or nature of our related promotional programs. The sufficiency and effectiveness of our marketing and trade spending practices is important to our ability to retain or improve our market share or margins. As discussed above, we recently split our sales force into the Pet Products sales force and the Consumer Products sales force. The effective execution of our trade promotion programs will depend on the successful transition of these changes. If our marketing and trade spending programs are not successful or if we fail to implement sufficient and effective marketing and trade spending programs, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power outages, systems failures, security breaches, cyber attacks and viruses. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are in the process of developing a plan to implement a company-wide, cloud-based enterprise resource planning system. Our anticipated system implementation may not result in improvements that outweigh its costs and may disrupt our operations. If we are unable to successfully plan, design or implement this new system, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The system implementation subjects us to substantial costs and inherent risks associated with migrating from our legacy systems. These costs and risks could include, but are not limited to: • inability to fill customer orders accurately and on a timely basis, or at all; • inability to process payments to vendors accurately and in a timely manner; • disruption of our internal control structure; 18 Table of Contents • inability to fulfill our SEC or other governmental reporting requirements in a timely or accurate manner; • inability to fulfill federal, state and local tax filing requirements in a timely or accurate manner; • increased demands on management and staff time to the detriment of other corporate initiatives; and • significant capital and operating expenditures. Adverse weather conditions (caused by climate change or otherwise), natural disasters, pestilences and other natural conditions can affect crops and other inputs, which can adversely affect our operations and our results of operations. The commodities, ingredients and raw materials that we use in the production of our products (including, among others, fruits, vegetables, tomatoes and grain) are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes and pestilences. Adverse weather conditions may be impacted by climate change and other factors. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters can reduce crop size and crop quality, which in turn could reduce our supplies of raw materials, lower recoveries of usable raw materials, increase the prices of our raw materials, increase our cost of storing raw materials if harvests are accelerated and processing capacity is unavailable, or interrupt or delay our production schedules if harvests are delayed. For example, our tomato suppliers are located in California, which experiences drought conditions from time to time. Additionally, the growth of crops, as well as the manufacture and processing of our products, requires significant amounts of water. Drought or other causes of a reduction of water in aquifers may affect availability of water, which in turn may adversely affect our results of operations. Competing manufacturers may be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies or operations. If our supplies of raw materials are reduced, we may not be able to find enough supplemental supply sources on favorable terms, if at all, which could impact our ability to supply product to our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased costs for raw materials or other inputs could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as described in “—The inputs, commodities, ingredients and other raw materials that we require are subject to price increases and shortages that could adversely affect our results of operations.” Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A natural disaster such as an earthquake, tornado, fire, flood, or severe storm or other catastrophic event affecting our operating activities or major facilities, could cause an interruption or delay in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. We are particularly susceptible to earthquakes as our executive offices, our research centers, and some of our fruit, vegetable and tomato operations are located in California where earthquakes periodically occur. Additionally, some of our pet operations are located in places where tornados periodically occur, such as Alabama and Kansas. If our operations are damaged by an earthquake, tornado or other disaster, we may be subject to supply interruptions, destruction of our facilities and products or other business disruptions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Inventory production in our Consumer Products operating segment is highly seasonal. Interference with our production schedule during peak months or inventory shortages could negatively impact our results of operations. We do not manufacture the majority of our fruit, vegetable and tomato products continuously throughout the year, but instead have a seasonal production period that is limited to approximately three to four months primarily during the summer each year. We refer to this period as the “pack season.” An unexpected plant shutdown or any other material interference with our production schedule for any reason could adversely affect our results of operations. For most of our fruit, vegetable and tomato products, the inventory created during the pack season, plus any inventory carried over from the previous pack season, determines the quantity of inventory we have available for sale until the next pack season commences. The size of the pack is influenced by crop results, which is affected by weather and other factors. Similarly, the timing of the pack season depends upon crop timing, which in turn is affected by weather and other factors. In the event that the inventory produced during the pack season is less than desired, or if the new pack season is delayed, or if demand for product is greater than forecasted, we may be required to “allocate” or limit sales of some items to customers in an effort to stretch supplies until the new pack season begins and new product is available. We could also experience inventory shortages in the event of can or end defects, whether discovered during the pack season or thereafter, or other factors. In the event we are required to allocate or limit sales of some items, we may lose sales volume and market share, our customer relationships may be harmed, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. Alternatively, inventory produced may be greater than desired leading to excess inventory, which may adversely affect our working capital and margins. 19 Table of Contents A change in the assumptions used to value our reporting units or our indefinite-lived intangible assets could result in goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As of April 28, 2013, our goodwill was comprised of $1,976.1 million related to our Pet Products reporting unit and $143.6 million related to our Consumer Products reporting unit. We typically test goodwill of our Pet Products and Consumer Products reporting units for impairment at least annually. Events indicative of a potential impairment (such as a decrease in the cash flow relating to a reporting unit) may cause us to perform additional tests for impairment and may also cause us to change our judgments or assumptions. Goodwill is considered impaired if the book value of the reporting unit containing the goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. For goodwill, we determine the estimated fair value of a reporting unit using the income approach (which is based on the cash flows the reporting unit is expected to generate over its remaining life) and the market approach (which is based on market multiples of similar businesses). As of April 28, 2013, the book value of our capitalized brand names that we have determined have indefinite lives (“Non-Amortizing Brands”) was $1,871.4 million. We typically test our Non-Amortizing Brands for impairment at least annually. Events indicative of a potential impairment (such as a significant decline in the expected sales associated with a brand) may cause us to perform additional tests for impairment. Non-Amortizing Brands are considered impaired if the book value for the brand exceeds its estimated fair value. We determine the estimated fair value of a Non-Amortizing Brand using the relief from royalty method (which is based upon the estimated rent or royalty we would pay for the use of a brand name if we did not own it). Considerable judgment by us is necessary in estimating future cash flows, market interest rates, discount factors, and other factors used in the income approach, market approach or relief from royalty method used to value goodwill and Non-Amortizing Brands. Many of these factors reflect our assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses, which may be impacted by risks discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. If we change our judgments or assumptions used in valuing our goodwill or other intangible assets in connection with any future impairment tests, we may conclude that the estimated fair value of the goodwill or Non-Amortizing Brand (as applicable) is less than the book value. This would result in a write down of the goodwill or Non-Amortizing Brand book value to the estimated fair value and recognition of an impairment charge. Any such impairment charge would adversely affect our earnings and could be material. Disruption of our supply chain could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ability and the ability of our suppliers, co-packers and other business partners to make, move and sell products are critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, pandemics, strikes or other reasons (including other reasons discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section) could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single supplier or location or if such events impact our seasonal pack, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely upon a number of third parties to manage or provide distribution centers for our products. Failures by these third parties could adversely affect our business. A number of our distribution centers are managed by third parties. Additionally, we also use third-party distribution centers, which may distribute our products as well as the products of other companies. Activity at these distribution centers could be disrupted by a number of factors, including, labor issues, failure to meet customer standards, bankruptcy or other financial issues affecting the third-party providers, or other matters affecting any such third party’s ability to service our customers effectively. Any disruption of these distribution centers could adversely affect our business. We rely primarily on a single company to provide us with logistics services and any failure by this provider to effectively service us could adversely affect our business. Our logistics requirements in connection with transporting our products are handled primarily by a third-party logistics service provider. Such services include: scheduling and coordinating transportation of finished products to our distribution centers and customers; shipment tracking; freight dispatch services; transportation related payment services; and filing, collecting and resolving freight claims. Any sudden or unexpected disruption of these services for any reason could significantly disrupt our business. We use a single national broker to represent a significant portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade and any failure by the broker to effectively represent us would adversely affect our business. We use a single national broker to represent a significant portion of our branded products to the retail grocery trade. Our business would suffer substantial disruption if this broker were to default in the performance of its obligations to perform brokerage services or if this broker fails to effectively represent us to the retail grocery trade. Changes in our sales strategy may impact this relationship. 20 Table of Contents Risk associated with foreign operations, including changes in import/export duties, wage rates, political or economic climates, criminal activity or exchange rates, may adversely affect our operations. Our foreign operations and relationships with foreign suppliers and co-packers, as well as our export of certain products (particularly pet products), subject us to the risks of doing business abroad. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act of 1977, as amended. As of April 28, 2013, three of our nineteen production facilities were located abroad and nine of our eighteen co-packers were located in foreign locations. The countries from which we source our products and in which we have some facilities may be subject to political and economic instability, which may adversely affect our results of operations. For example, Venezuela (where we have one production facility) and Mexico (where we have two production facilities) are currently experiencing political and economic instability. For example, in Venezuela, the government has seized several food production facilities for allegedly skirting price controls and imposed price controls on our juice products during fiscal 2013. Given the political and economic instability in the region, the Venezuelan government may take actions that impact our operations. In Mexico, criminal activity has impacted the country’s logistics and infrastructure, including recent gang attacks on businesses. Items produced by us in Mexico are sold primarily in the United States and the transportation and import of such products may be disrupted. Furthermore, foreign countries in which we produce our products as well as countries to which we export our products may periodically enact new or revise existing laws, taxes, duties, quotas, tariffs, currency controls or other restrictions to which we are subject, which may adversely affect our business. Other events that disrupt foreign production, sourcing, or transportation (such as labor unrest) or generate consumer concerns (whether justified or not) regarding foreign-produced products could also adversely affect our business. Finally, our products are subject to import duties and other restrictions, and the United States government may periodically impose new or revise existing duties, quotas, tariffs or other restrictions to which we are subject, which may adversely affect our business. We are subject to environmental regulation and environmental risks, which may adversely affect our business. Climate change or concerns regarding climate change may increase environmental regulation and environmental risks. As a result of our agricultural and food processing operations, we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent and compliance with them is becoming increasingly expensive. Changes in environmental conditions may result in existing legislation having a greater impact on us. Additionally, we may be subject to new legislation and regulation in the future. For example, increasing concern about climate change may result in additional federal and state legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of green-house gas emissions. Compliance with environmental legislation and regulations, particularly if they are more aggressive than our current sustainability measures used to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, may increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot predict the extent to which any environmental law or regulation that may be enacted or enforced in the future may affect our operations. We have been named as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) and may be liable for environmental investigation and remediation costs at some designated “Superfund Sites” under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), or under similar state laws. We are defending ourselves in these actions as we believe appropriate. However, these matters may adversely impact our financial position or results of operations. We may in the future be named as a PRP at other currently or previously owned or operated sites, and additional remediation requirements could be imposed on us. We are currently conducting investigation and remedial activities at some locations, and other properties where we conduct or have conducted operations could be identified for investigation or proposed for listing under CERCLA or similar state laws in the future. Costs to investigate and remediate any such contamination could be material. Additionally, we will be required to conduct an investigation and, to the extent necessary, remedial activities at facilities in Terminal Island, CA. There can be no assurances that existing accruals will be sufficient to cover such activities. Also, under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is involved in a series of regulatory actions relating to the evaluation and use of pesticides in the food industry. The effect of these actions and future actions on the availability and use of pesticides could adversely impact our financial position or results of operations. If the cost of compliance with applicable environmental laws or regulations increases, our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and have a negative impact on our results of operations. We sponsor a qualified defined benefit pension plan and various other nonqualified retirement and supplemental retirement plans. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the defined benefit pension plan, significantly affects net periodic benefit costs of our pension plan and our ongoing funding requirements of that plan. The qualified defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future contribution requirements. In or following an economic environment characterized by declining investment returns and interest rates, we may be required to make additional cash contributions to our pension plan and recognize further increases in our net pension cost to satisfy our funding requirements. A significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase our net periodic pension costs and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant increase in our contribution requirements with respect to our qualified defined benefit pension plan could have an adverse impact on our cash flow. 21 Table of Contents We may be exposed to counterparty risk in our currency, interest rate and commodity hedging arrangements. From time to time we enter into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts and swap agreements. Additionally, in the future, we may enter into arrangements with financial institutions and other counterparties to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, including swap agreements, as an alternative to exchange-traded derivatives. A number of financial institutions similar to those that serve or may serve as counterparties to our hedging arrangements were adversely affected by the global credit crisis. The failure of any of the counterparties to our hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations to us could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. Consumers’ perception of our brands can be influenced by negative posts or comments about our brands on social or digital media. We believe that maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is based in large part on consumer perceptions. Success in promoting and enhancing brand value depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, or the products becoming unavailable to consumers. The growing use of social and digital media by consumers increases the speed and extent that information and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us or our brands or products on social or digital media could damage our brands and reputation. If we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, we may harm our ability to compete. Our brand names and trademarks, such as the marks Del Monte, Meow Mix , Kibbles ‘n Bits and Milk-Bone, are important to our business. We rely on trademark, copyright, trade secret, patent and other intellectual property laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary information, technologies and processes. We also have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of third-party intellectual property. We may need to engage in litigation or similar activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could require us to expend significant resources and divert the efforts and attention of our management and other personnel from our business operations. The steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement or other violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of others may not be successful. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for some of our trademarks and patents in some foreign countries. Failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business and results of operations. Intellectual property infringement or violation claims may adversely impact our results of operations. We may be subject to claims by others that we infringe on their intellectual property or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights. To the extent we develop, introduce and acquire products, such risk may be exacerbated. We have in the past been subject to such claims. For example, as described in more detail in “Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies” of our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in April 2012, we lost a case brought against us by Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. As a result of the final judgment against us, we were required to pay, among other things, compensatory damages of approximately $16.6 million. We also voluntarily stopped producing certain fruit products named in the litigation. See “Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies” of our consolidated financial statements included in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of this case. Claims of infringement or violation may require us to engage in litigation to determine the scope and validity of such claims, change our products or cease selling certain products. Any of such events may adversely impact our results of operations. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages by Del Monte employees. As of April 28, 2013, we have 16 collective bargaining agreements with 15 union locals covering approximately 71% of our hourly full time and seasonal employees. Of these employees, approximately 30% are covered under collective bargaining agreements scheduled to expire in fiscal 2014 and approximately 22% are covered under collective bargaining agreements that are scheduled to 22 Table of Contents expire in fiscal 2015. We may not be able to negotiate these or other collective bargaining agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by labor stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with negotiations of our significant collective bargaining agreements, or as a result of disputes under our collective bargaining agreements with labor unions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Del Monte brand name could be confused with names of other companies who, by their act or omission, could adversely affect the value of the Del Monte brand name. We have licensed the Del Monte brand name (and with respect to The Philippines and South Africa, transferred title) to various unaffiliated companies internationally and, for some products, in the United States. The common stock of one licensee, Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc., is publicly traded in the United States. Acts or omissions by these unaffiliated companies may adversely affect the value of the Del Monte brand name and demand for our products. Third-party announcements or rumors about these licensees could also have these negative effects. In addition, in connection with the 2002 Merger, Heinz retained its ownership of some of the brand names used by our businesses in countries in which we do not compete. Acts or omissions by Heinz, its licensees or its transferees that adversely affect the value of these brand names may also adversely affect demand for our products. Funds affiliated with KKR, Vestar and Centerview (collectively, the “Sponsors”), as well as AlpInvest, indirectly own substantially all of the equity interests in us and may have conflicts of interest with us or the holders of our indebtedness in the future. Investment funds affiliated with the Sponsors and other investors collectively own substantially all of our outstanding equity securities, and the Sponsors’ designees hold substantially all of the seats on our board of directors. As a result, affiliates of the Sponsors and other investors have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether others believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. For example, affiliates of the Sponsors and other investors could collectively cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or to sell assets, or could cause us to issue additional capital stock or declare dividends. So long as investment funds affiliated with the Sponsors and other investors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock or otherwise control a majority of our board of directors, affiliates of the Sponsors and other investors will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. The Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes permit us to pay advisory and other fees, pay dividends and make other restricted payments to the Sponsors under certain circumstances and the Sponsors or their affiliates may have an interest in our doing so. In addition, the Sponsors and other investors have no obligation to provide us with any additional debt or equity financing. Additionally, the Sponsors and other investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or that supply us with goods and services. The Sponsors and other investors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. See “Part III, Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 