ITEM 1A. Risk Factors A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. You should carefully consider such risks and uncertainties, together with the other information contained in this report, and in our other public filings. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred operating losses in the past, may incur operating losses in the future, and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We began our operations in 2003. For substantially all of our history, we have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $102.1 million. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. Furthermore, as a public company, we incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we will not become profitable. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including without limitation the other risks and uncertainties described herein. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating or legal expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If these losses exceed our expectations or our revenue growth expectations are not met in future periods, our financial performance will be harmed. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive and many companies, including large technology companies, broadband and security service providers and other managed service providers, are actively targeting the home automation market. Our failure to differentiate ourselves and compete successfully with these companies would make it difficult for us to add and retain consumers, and would reduce or impede the growth of our business. The market for automation and control solutions for the connected home is increasingly competitive and global. Many large technology companies have expanded into the connected home market by developing their own solutions, or by acquiring other companies with home automation solution offerings. For example, Microsoft Corporation recently acquired id8 Group R2 Studios Inc., a home entertainment technology company, and Google recently acquired Nest Labs, which manufactures thermostats and smoke detectors. These large technology companies already have broad consumer awareness and sell a variety of devices for the home, and consumers may choose their offerings instead of ours, even if we offer superior products and services. Similarly, many managed service providers, such as cable TV, telephone and security companies, are beginning to offer services that provide device control and automation capability within the home for an additional monthly service fee. For example, Comcast is expanding its Xfinity service to provide residential security, energy and automation services. These managed service providers have the advantage of leveraging their existing consumer base, network of installation and support technicians and name recognition to gain traction in the home automation market. In addition, consumers may prefer the monthly service fee with little to no upfront cost offered by some of these managed service providers over a larger upfront cost with little to no monthly service fees. 16 Table of Contents We expect competition from these large technology companies and managed service providers to increase in the future. This increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales, lower margins or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. To remain competitive and to maintain our position as a leading provider of automation and control solutions for the connected home, we will need to invest continuously in product development, marketing, dealer and distributor service and support, and product delivery infrastructure. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investments in all of the areas needed to maintain our competitive position. In addition, most of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger consumer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than us, which may provide them with an advantage in developing, marketing or servicing new solutions. Increased competition could reduce our market share, revenue and operating margins, increase our operating costs, harm our competitive position and otherwise harm our business and results of operations. Consumers may choose to adopt point products that provide control of discrete home functionality rather than adopting our unified home automation solution. If we are unable to increase market awareness of the benefits of our unified solution, our revenue may not continue to grow, or it may decline. Many vendors have emerged, and may continue to emerge, to provide point products with advanced functionality for use in the home, such as a thermostat that can be controlled by an application on a smartphone. We expect more and more consumer electronic and consumer appliance products to be network-aware and connected—each very likely to have its own smart device (phone or tablet) application. Consumers may be attracted to the relatively low costs of these point products and the ability to expand their home control solution over time with minimal upfront costs, despite some of the disadvantages of this approach. While we have built our solution to be flexible and support third-party point products, these products may reduce the revenue we receive for each installation. It is therefore important that we have technical expertise and provide attractive top quality products in many areas, such as lighting and video, and establish broad market awareness of these solutions. If a significant number of consumers in our target market choose to adopt point products rather than our unified automation solution, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve sustained growth or our business may decline. Many of the competitors in our market, including providers of luxury integrated installations with long operating histories, established markets, broad user bases and proven consumer acceptance, may be successful in expanding into the mainstream home automation market, which may harm our growth and future prospects. Many companies with which we directly compete have been operating in this industry for many years and, as a result, have established significant name recognition in the home automation industry. For example, Crestron, a provider of luxury integrated installations, has been in business for over 40 years and has become an established presence in the home automation industry. Another provider of luxury integrated installations is Savant Systems, which provides home automation based on the Apple iOS operating platform. To the extent these providers are able to develop more affordable products that compete more directly with our solution, our growth may be constrained and our business could suffer. In addition, given the strong growth potential of the market, we expect there to be many new entrants in the future. 17 Table of Contents Since we rely on third-party dealers and distributors to sell and install our solutions, we do not have a direct sales pipeline, which makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast future sales and correctly predict manufacturing requirements. We depend on our dealer and distributor network to sell and install our solution. As a result, we do not develop or control our sales pipeline, making it difficult for us to predict future sales. In addition, because the production of certain of our products requires long lead times, we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of certain of our products well in advance of the time in which those products will be sold. These contracts are based on our best estimates of our near-term product needs. If we underestimate consumer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate consumer demand, we may purchase more inventory than we are able to sell at any given time, or at all. If we fail to accurately estimate demand for our products, we could have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase our costs of revenues and reduce our liquidity. Our failure to accurately manage inventory relative to demand would adversely affect our results of operations. We have relatively limited visibility regarding the consumers that ultimately purchase our products, and we often rely on information from third-party dealers and distributors to help us manage our business. If these dealers and distributors fail to provide timely or accurate information, our ability to quickly react to market changes and effectively manage our business may be harmed. We sell our solutions through dealers and distributors. These dealers and distributors work with consumers to design, install, update and maintain their home automation installations. While we are able to track orders from dealers and distributors and have access to certain information about the configurations of their Control4 systems that we receive through our controller appliances, we also rely on dealers and distributors to provide us with information about consumer behavior, product and system feedback, consumer demographics, buying patterns and information on our competitors. We use this channel sell-through data, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our solutions, develop new products, adjust pricing and make other strategic business decisions. Channel sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party nature of the data and thus may not be complete or accurate. In addition, to the extent we collect information directly from consumers, for example through surveys that we conduct, the consumers who supply this sell-through data self select and vary by geographic region and from period to period, which may impact the usefulness of the results. If we do not receive consumer information on a timely or accurate basis, or if we do not properly interpret this information, our ability to quickly react to market changes and effectively manage our business may be harmed. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including: •Demand for and market acceptance of our solutions; •Our ability to increase, retain and incentivize the certified dealers and distributors that market, sell, install and support our solutions; •The ability of our contract manufacturers to continue to manufacture high-quality products, and to supply sufficient products to meet our demands; 18 Table of Contents •The timing and success of introductions of new products, solutions or upgrades by us or our competitors and the entrance of new competitors; •The strength of regional, national and global economies; •The impact of natural disasters or manmade problems such as terrorism; •Changes in our business and pricing policies, or those of our competitors; •Competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors; •The impact of seasonality on our business; •The amount and timing of expenditures, including those related to expanding our operations, increasing research and development, introducing new solutions or paying litigation expenses; and •Changes in the payment terms for our solutions. Due to the foregoing factors and the other risks discussed herein, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. You should not consider our recent revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. If we are unable to develop new solutions, sell our solutions into new markets or further penetrate our existing markets, our revenue may not grow as expected. Our ability to increase sales will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our solutions, to introduce new solutions in a timely manner, to sell into new markets and to further penetrate our existing markets. The success of any enhancement or new product or solution depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of enhanced or new solutions, the ability to attract, retain and effectively train sales and marketing personnel, the ability to develop relationships with dealers and distributors and the effectiveness of our marketing programs. Any new product or solution we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Any new markets into which we attempt to sell our solutions, including new vertical markets and new countries or regions, may not be receptive. Our ability to further penetrate our existing markets depends on the quality of our solutions and our ability to design our solutions to meet consumer demand. Moreover, we are frequently required to enhance and update our solutions as a result of changing standards and technological developments, which makes it difficult to recover the cost of development and forces us to continually qualify new solutions with our consumers. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new solutions, enhance our existing solutions to meet consumer requirements, sell solutions into new markets or sell our solutions to additional consumers in our existing markets, our revenue may not grow as expected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and expand our global network of dealers and distributors. As of December 31, 2013, we have developed a global network of over 3,000 active direct dealers and 29 distributors to sell, install and support our solutions. We rely on our dealers and distributors to provide consumers with a successful Control4 home automation experience. In some cases, dealers may choose not to offer our solution and instead offer a product from one of our competitors or, in other cases, the dealer may simply discontinue its operations. In order to continue our growth and expand our business, it is important that we continue to add new dealers and distributors and maintain most of our existing relationships. We must also work to expand our network of dealers and distributors to ensure that we have sufficient geographic coverage and technical expertise to address new markets and 19 Table of Contents technologies. While it is difficult to estimate the total number of available dealers in our markets, there are a finite number of dealers that are able to perform the types of technical installations required for home automation systems. In the event that we saturate the available dealer pool, or if market or other forces cause the available pool of dealers to decline, it may be increasingly difficult to grow our business. As consumers' home automation options grow, it is important that we enhance our dealer footprint by broadening the expertise of our dealers, working with larger and more sophisticated dealers and expanding the mainstream consumer products our dealers offer. If we are unable to expand our network of dealers and distributors, our business could be harmed. We rely on our dealers and distributors to sell our solution, and if our dealers and distributors fail to perform, our ability to sell and distribute our products and services will be limited, and our results of operations may be harmed. Substantially all of our revenue is generated through the sales of our solution by our dealers and distributors. Our dealers and distributors are independent businesses that voluntarily sell our products as well as the products of other companies to consumers. We provide our dealers and distributors with specific training and programs to assist them in selling our products, but we cannot assure that these steps will be effective. We have observed, and expect to continue to observe, high volatility in the monthly, quarterly and annual sales performance of individual dealers and distributors. Although we can make estimated forecasts of cumulative sales of large numbers of dealers and distributors, we cannot assure their accuracy collectively or individually. Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce or slow our spending quickly enough if our actual sales fall short of our expectations. As a result, we expect that our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our revenues, results of operations and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our dealers and distributors may be unsuccessful in marketing, selling, and supporting our products and services. If we are unable to develop and maintain effective sales incentive programs for our third-party dealers and distributors, we may not be able to incentivize them to sell our products to consumers and, in particular, to larger businesses and organizations. Our dealers and distributors may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours, and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales, and support of such competitive products. Our dealers and distributors may have incentives to promote our competitors' products to the detriment of our own, or may cease selling our products altogether. Our agreements with our dealers and distributors may generally be terminated for any reason by either party with advance notice. We cannot assure you that we will retain these dealers and distributors, or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement dealers and distributors. Further, if we alter our sales process in a region by switching from a distributor to a direct dealer model, our sales may be impacted leading up to or in connection with such change in sales process. In addition, while we take certain steps to protect ourselves from liability for the actions of our dealers and distributors, consumers may seek to recover amounts from us for any damages caused by dealers in connection with system installations, or the failure of a system to perform properly due to an incorrect installation by a dealer. In addition, our dealers and distributors may use our name and our brand in ways we do not authorize, and any such improper use may harm our reputation or expose us to liability for their actions. If we fail to effectively manage our existing sales channels, if our dealers or distributors are unsuccessful in fulfilling the orders for our products, or if we are unable to enter into arrangements with, and retain a sufficient number of, high quality dealers and distributors in each of the regions in which we sell products, and keep them motivated to sell our products, our results of operations may be harmed. The termination of our relationship with any significant dealer or distributor may also adversely impact our sales and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We have entered into several strategic arrangements and intend to pursue additional strategic opportunities in the future. If the intended benefits from our strategic relationships are not realized, our results of operations may be harmed. We are in the process of growing our relationships with strategic partners in order to attempt to reach markets that we cannot currently address cost-effectively and to increase awareness of our solution. If these relationships do not develop in the manner we intend, our future growth could be impacted. Furthermore, the termination of our relationship with a partner may cause us to incur expenses without corresponding revenue, incur a termination penalty and harm our sales and results of operations. For example, in 2012, we discontinued energy products for utility customers and, in connection with that decision, we incurred an expense related to an inventory purchase commitment and paid a fee to our counterparty to terminate the arrangement. Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could harm our results of operations and make us more dependent on alternate channels, damage our reputation, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or harm buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms. If we do not maintain the compatibility of our solutions with third-party products and applications that our consumers use, demand for our solutions could decline. Our solutions are designed to interoperate with a wide range of other third-party products, including products in the areas of music, video, lighting, temperature and security. If we do not support the continued integration of our solutions with third-party products and applications, including through the provision of application programming interfaces that enable data to be transferred readily between our solutions and third-party products and applications, demand for our solutions could decline and we could lose sales. We will also be required to make our solutions compatible with new or additional third-party products and applications that are introduced into the markets that we serve. To help us meet this challenge, we have developed our Simple Device Discovery Protocol ("SDDP"), designed to enable our devices to recognize and control third-party products by embedding software in such products at the manufacturer, making it easier for dealers and consumers to add them to their Control4 systems. Although we are making SDDP available on a royalty-free basis to product manufacturers, its adoption is not yet substantial, and may not achieve greater or broad market acceptance. In addition, companies that provide popular point solutions have and may continue to eliminate or restrict our ability to control and be compatible with these products. As a result, we may not be successful in making our solutions compatible with these third-party products and applications, which could reduce demand for our solutions. In addition, if prospective consumers require customized features or functions that we do not offer, then the market for our solutions may be harmed. Our inability to adapt to technological change could impair our ability to remain competitive. The market for home automation and control solutions is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent introductions of new products and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new consumers and increase revenue from existing consumers will depend in significant part on our ability to anticipate changes in industry standards and to continue to enhance or introduce existing solutions on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments. We are currently changing several aspects of our operating system, and may utilize Android open source technology in the future, which may cause difficulties including compatibility, stability and time to market. The success of this or any enhanced or new product or solution will depend on several factors, including the timely completion and market acceptance of the enhanced or new product or solution. Similarly, if any of our competitors implement new technologies before we are able to implement them, those competitors may be able to provide more effective products than ours, possibly at lower prices. Any delay or failure in 21 Table of Contents the introduction of new or enhanced solutions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely on contract manufacturers to manufacture our products and component vendors to supply parts used in our products. The majority of our components are supplied by a single source. Any disruption in our supply chain, or our failure to successfully manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers or component vendors could harm our business. Our reliance on contract manufacturers reduces our control over the assembly process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture substantially all of our products. We also do business with a number of component vendors, and the parts they supply may not perform as expected. For certain of our products and components, we rely on a sole-source manufacturer or supplier. For the year ended December 31, 2013, two contract manufacturers, Sanmina and LiteOn, manufactured 72% of our inventory purchases. Certain of our contract manufacturers and component vendors are located outside of the United States and may be subject to political, economic, social and legal uncertainties that may harm our relationships with these parties. If we fail to manage our relationships with our contract manufacturers or component vendors effectively, or if our contract manufacturers or component vendors experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations, our ability to ship products may be impaired and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In addition, any adverse change in our contract manufacturers' or component vendors' financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our dealers and distributors. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or component vendors, we may lose revenue, incur increased costs or damage our relationships, or we might be unable to find a new contract manufacturer or component vendor on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, qualifying a new contract manufacturer or component vendor can be an expensive and lengthy process. If we experience increased demand that our contract manufacturers or component vendors are unable to fulfill, or if they are unable to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products for any reason, we could experience a delay in our order fulfillment, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Growth of our business will depend on market awareness and a strong brand, and any failure to develop, maintain, protect and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain or attract consumers. Because of the early stage of development of the mainstream home automation market, we believe that building and maintaining market awareness, brand recognition and goodwill is critical to our success. This will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality solutions, and we may not be able to do so effectively. While we may choose to engage in a broader marketing campaign to further promote our brand, this effort may not be successful. Our efforts in developing our brand may be affected by the marketing efforts of our competitors and our reliance on our dealers, distributors and strategic partners to promote our brand. If we are unable to cost-effectively maintain and increase awareness of our brand, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We operate in the emerging and evolving home automation market, which may develop more slowly or differently than we expect. If the mainstream home automation market does not grow as we expect, or if we cannot expand our solutions to meet the demands of this market, our revenue may decline, fail to grow or fail to grow at an accelerated rate, and we may incur additional operating losses. The market for home automation and control solutions is in an early stage of development, and it is uncertain whether, how rapidly or how consistently this market will develop, and even if it does develop, whether our solutions will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. 22 Table of Contents Some consumers may be reluctant or unwilling to use our solutions for a number of reasons, including satisfaction with traditional solutions, concerns for additional costs and lack of awareness of our solutions. Unified home automation solutions such as ours have traditionally been luxury purchases for the high end of the residential market. Our ability to expand the sales of our solutions to a broader consumer base depends on several factors, including the awareness of our solutions, the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of our solutions, the ability to attract, retain and effectively train sales and marketing personnel, the ability to develop relationships with dealers and distributors, the effectiveness of our marketing programs, the costs of our solutions and the success of our competitors. If we are unsuccessful in developing and marketing our home automation solutions to mainstream consumers, or if these consumers do not perceive or value the benefits of our solutions, the market for our solutions might not continue to develop or might develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our revenue and growth prospects. Our consumers may experience service failures or interruptions due to defects in the software, infrastructure, third-party components or processes that comprise our existing or new solutions, or due to dealer errors in product installation, any of which could harm our business. Our solutions may contain undetected defects in the software, infrastructure, third-party components or processes. If these defects lead to service failures after introduction of or an upgrade to a product or solution by a dealer, we could experience harm to our branded reputation, claims by our consumers, dealers, distributors, strategic partners or developers or lost revenue during the period required to address the cause of the defects. We may find defects in new or upgraded solutions, resulting in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our solutions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since our solutions are installed by our dealers, if they do not install or maintain our solutions correctly, our solutions may not function properly. If the improper installation or maintenance of our solutions leads to service failures after introduction of, or an upgrade to, a product or solution, we could experience harm to our branded reputation, claims by our consumers, dealers, distributors, strategic partners or developers or lost revenue during the period required to address the cause of the problem. This could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any defect in, or disruption to, our solutions could cause consumers not to purchase additional products from us, prevent potential consumers from purchasing our solutions, or harm our reputation. Although our contracts with our consumers limit our liability to our consumers for these defects, disruptions or errors, we nonetheless could be subject to litigation for actual or alleged losses to our consumers' businesses, which may require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or arbitration, or to pay significant settlements or damages. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly, divert management's attention and affect our ability to obtain or maintain liability insurance on acceptable terms and could harm our business. Although we currently maintain some warranty reserves, we cannot assure you that these warranty reserves will be sufficient to cover future liabilities. Furthermore, we may be required to indemnify our dealers, distributors and partners against certain liabilities they may incur as a result of defects of our products. In 2012, we incurred significant costs associated with the recall and replacement of a defective chip from a third-party component used within one of our products. We encounter seasonality in sales, which could harm the amount, timing and predictability of our revenue and cause our stock price to fluctuate. We have little recurring revenue or backlog and our revenue is generated from orders of our solutions from new and existing consumers, which may cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. We may experience seasonality in the sales of our solutions. Historically, our revenue is generally higher in the fourth quarter and lower in the first quarter. Seasonal variations in our sales may lead to significant 23 Table of Contents fluctuations in our cash flows and results of operations on a quarterly basis. If we experience a delay in signing or a failure to sign a significant partner agreement in any particular quarter, then our results of operations for such quarter and for subsequent quarters may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which may result in a decline in our stock price. We may not generate significant revenue as a result of our current research and development efforts. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we spent $25.0 million on research and development expenses. High levels of expenditures for research and development could harm our results of operations, especially if not offset by corresponding future revenue increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, it is difficult to estimate when, if ever, we will generate significant revenue as a result of these investments. Our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions and our potential inability to successfully integrate newly-acquired technologies, assets or businesses may harm our financial results. We believe part of our growth will be driven by acquisitions of other companies or their technologies, assets and businesses. Any acquisitions we complete will give rise to risks, including: •Incurring higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses; •Failing to assimilate the operations and personnel or failing to retain the key personnel of the acquired company or business; •Failing to integrate the acquired technologies, or incurring significant expense to integrate acquired technologies into our solutions; •Disrupting our ongoing business; •Dissipating our management resources; •Failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; •Incurring significant accounting charges; •Impairing relationships with employees, dealers, distributors, partners or consumers; •Finding that the acquired technology, asset or business does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the technology, asset or business or that we may be required to write off acquired assets or investments partially or entirely; •Failing to realize the expected synergies of the transaction; •Being exposed to unforeseen liabilities and contingencies that were not identified prior to acquiring the company; and •Being unable to generate sufficient revenue from acquisitions to offset the associated acquisition costs. Fully integrating an acquired technology, asset or business into our operations may take a significant amount of time. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with acquisitions. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to any such acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Acquisitions also could impact our financial position and capital needs, or could cause fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in successful acquisitions. Future acquisitions of technologies, assets or businesses, which are paid for partially or entirely through the issuance of stock or stock rights, could dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. We expect that the consideration we might pay for any future acquisitions of technologies, assets or businesses could include stock, rights to purchase stock, cash or some combination of the foregoing. If we issue stock or rights to purchase stock in connection with future acquisitions, net income (loss) per share and then-existing holders of our common stock may experience dilution. Our gross margins can vary significantly depending on multiple factors, which can result in fluctuations in our results of operations. Our gross margins are likely to vary due to consumer demand, product mix, new product introductions, unit volumes, commodity and supply chain costs, product delivery costs, geographic sales mix, foreign currency exchange rates, excess and obsolete inventory and the complexity and functionality of new product innovations. In particular, if we are not able to introduce new solutions in a timely manner at the cost we expect, or if consumer demand for our solutions is less than we anticipate, or if there are product pricing, marketing and other initiatives by our competitors to which we need to react that lower our margins, then our overall gross margin will be less than we project. The impact of these factors on gross margins can create unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations, which may cause volatility in our stock price. If we are unable to substantially utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, our financial results will be harmed. As of December 31, 2013, our net operating loss ("NOL") carryforward amounts for U.S. federal income and state tax purposes were $77.4 million and $75.6 million, respectively. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" may be subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. Purchases of our common stock in amounts greater than specified levels, which will be beyond our control, could create an additional limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs for tax purposes in the future. Limitations imposed on our ability to utilize NOLs could cause U.S. federal and state income taxes to be paid earlier than would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our NOLs before they expire. If any of these events occur, we may not derive some or all of the expected benefits from our NOLs. In addition, at the state level there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which would accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed. Governmental regulations affecting the import or export of products could harm our revenue. The U.S. and various foreign governments have imposed controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology, and may impose additional or broader controls, export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies in the future. In addition, from time to time, governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology, such as requiring the escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys. Although we do not believe that any of our products currently require an export license, if our products or components of our products become subject to governmental regulation of encryption technology or other governmental regulation of imports or exports, we may be required to obtain import or export approval for such products, which could increase our costs and harm our international and domestic sales and our revenue. In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in penalties, costs and restrictions on export privileges, which would harm our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth and diverse and complex operations, our reputation in the market and our ability to generate revenue from new or existing consumers may be harmed. Because our operations are geographically diverse and complex, our personnel resources and infrastructure could become strained and our reputation in the market and our ability to successfully implement our business plan may be harmed. We have experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. The growth in the size, complexity and diverse nature of our business and the expansion of our product lines and consumer base have placed increased demands on our management and operations, and further growth, if any, may place additional strains on our resources in the future. Our ability to effectively compete and to manage our planned future growth will depend on, among other things: •Maintaining continuity in our senior management and key personnel; •Increasing the productivity of our existing employees; •Attracting, retaining, training and motivating our employees, particularly our technical and management personnel; •Maintaining existing relationships and developing new relationships with contract manufacturers; •Improving our operational, financial and management controls; and •Improving our information reporting systems and procedures. If we do not manage the size, complexity and diverse nature of our business effectively, we could experience delayed product releases and longer response times by our dealers for assisting our consumers with implementation of our solutions, and could lack adequate resources to support our consumers on an ongoing basis, any of which could harm our reputation in the market, our ability to successfully implement our business plan and our ability to generate revenue from new or existing consumers. If we fail to retain our key employees, our business would be harmed and we might not be able to implement our business plan successfully. Given the complex nature of the technology on which our business is based and the speed with which such technology advances, our future success is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, engineering and sales personnel. Competition for talented personnel is intense, and we cannot be certain that we can retain our managerial, engineering and sales personnel or that we can attract, assimilate or retain such personnel in the future. Our inability to attract and retain such personnel could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Downturns in general economic and market conditions, including but not limited the global housing and mortgage market, and reductions in spending may reduce demand for our solutions, which could harm our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenue, results of operations and cash flows depend on the overall demand for our solutions. Concerns about the systemic impact of a potential widespread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility, decreased consumer confidence and diminished growth expectations in the U.S. economy and abroad. The current unstable general economic and market conditions have been characterized by a dramatic decline in consumer discretionary spending and have disproportionately affected providers of products and services that represent discretionary purchases. While the decline in consumer spending has recently moderated, these economic conditions could still lead to continued declines in consumer spending over the foreseeable future, and may have resulted in 26 Table of Contents a resetting of consumer spending habits that may make it unlikely that such spending will return to prior levels for the foreseeable future. During weak economic times, the available pool of dealers and distributors may decline as the prospects for home building and home renovation projects diminish, which may have a corresponding impact on our growth prospects. In addition, there is an increased risk during these periods that an increased percentage of our dealers will file for bankruptcy protection, which may harm our reputation, revenue, profitability and results of operations. We also face risks from international dealers and distributors that file for bankruptcy protection in foreign jurisdictions, in that the outcome of the application of foreign bankruptcy laws may be more difficult to predict. In addition, we may determine that the cost of pursuing any claim may outweigh the recovery potential of such claim. Likewise, consumer bankruptcies can detrimentally affect the business stability of our dealers and distributors. Prolonged economic slowdowns and reductions in new home construction and renovation projects may result in diminished sales of our solutions. Further worsening, broadening or protracted extension of the economic downturn could have a negative impact on our business, revenue, results of operations and cash flows. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, or may in the future include, those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, product warranties, income taxes and stock-based compensation expense. Our results of operations may be harmed if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices, may harm our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could harm our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Mergers or other strategic transactions involving our competitors could weaken our competitive position, which could harm our results of operations. Our industry is highly fragmented, and we believe it is likely that some of our existing competitors will consolidate or be acquired. In addition, some of our competitors may enter into new alliances with each other or may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties. Any such consolidation, acquisition, alliance or cooperative relationship could lead to pricing pressure and our loss of market share and could result in a competitor with greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, all of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents We incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our results of operations and our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and board members. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, and other applicable securities or exchange-related rules and regulations. In addition, our management team has also had to adapt to the requirements of being a public company. We expect complying with these rules and regulations will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more difficult, time consuming or costly, particularly if we are no longer an "emerging growth company," as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the "JOBS Act"). As a public company, we also expect that it may be more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. We are an "emerging growth company," and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not "emerging growth companies" including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding an annual non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and nonbinding stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. If we choose not to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our auditors will not be required to opine on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, investors may become less comfortable with the effectiveness of our internal controls and the risk that material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls go undetected may increase. If we choose to provide reduced disclosures in our periodic reports and proxy statements while we are an emerging growth company, investors would have access to less information and analysis about our executive compensation, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our executive compensation practices. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions and provide reduced disclosure. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be harmed. We will remain an "emerging growth company" for up to five years following our initial public offering or such earlier time that we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest to occur of: the last day of the fiscal year in which we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenue; the date we qualify as a "large accelerated filer," with at least $700 million of equity securities held by non-affiliates; the issuance, in any three-year period, by us of more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or the last day of the fiscal year ending after the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering. 28 Table of Contents In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we have chosen to "opt out" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in our failure to accurately report our financial results. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our business and adversely impact investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. We will be required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the second annual report we file with the SEC. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. However, our auditors will not be required to formally opine on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until we are no longer an "emerging growth company" as defined in the JOBS Act if we take advantage of the exemptions available to us through the JOBS Act. We are in the early stages of the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to remediate any future material weaknesses, or to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls when they are required to issue such opinion, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could harm our stock price. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in new technologies in the future could reduce our ability to compete successfully and harm our results of operations. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. We may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our security holders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the value of shares of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios or restrict our ability to pay dividends or make acquisitions. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, if at all, we may not be able to, among other things: •Develop and enhance our solutions; 29 Table of Contents •Continue to expand our research and development, sales and marketing organizations; •Hire, train and retain employees; •Respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements; or •Pursue acquisition opportunities. Our inability to do any of the foregoing could reduce our ability to compete successfully and harm our results of operations. We may be subject to additional tax liabilities, which would harm our results of operations. We are subject to income, sales, use, value added and other taxes in the United States and other countries in which we conduct business, which laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect sales, use, value added or other taxes on our sales may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. These determinations are highly complex and require detailed analysis of the available information and applicable statutes and regulatory materials. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be different from our historical tax practices, provisions and accruals. If we receive an adverse ruling as a result of an audit, or we unilaterally determine that we have misinterpreted provisions of the tax regulations to which we are subject, our tax provision, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed. In addition, liabilities associated with taxes are often subject to an extended or indefinite statute of limitations period. Therefore, we may be subject to additional tax liability (including penalties and interest) for a particular year for extended periods of time. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as terrorism. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or a flood, or a significant power outage could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters could affect our manufacturing vendors or logistics providers' ability to perform services such as manufacturing products or assisting with shipments on a timely basis. Sanmina and LiteOn, two of our contract manufacturers that manufactured 72% of our inventory purchases for the year ended December 31, 2013, have manufacturing facilities located in China. In the event our manufacturing vendors' information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missing financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. Further, if a natural disaster occurs in a region from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue, such as metropolitan areas in North America, consumers in that region may delay or forego purchases of our solutions from dealers and distributors in the region, which may harm our results of operations for a particular period. In addition, acts of terrorism could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, dealers, distributors, consumers or the economy as a whole. Given our typical concentration of sales at the end of each month and quarter, any disruption in the business of our manufacturers, logistics providers, dealers, distributors and consumers that impacts sales at the end of our quarter could have a greater impact on our quarterly results. All of the aforementioned risks may be augmented if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. To the extent that any of the above results in delays or cancellations of orders, or delays in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. 30 Table of Contents Global or regional economic, political and social conditions could harm our business and results of operations. External factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, financial crises, trade friction or geopolitical and social turmoil in those parts of the world that serve as markets for our solutions, such as Europe, Asia or elsewhere, could harm our business and results of operations. These uncertainties may cause our consumers to reduce discretionary spending on their home and make it difficult for us to accurately plan future business activities. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in worldwide financial markets and economies that could harm our sales. We are not insured for losses or interruptions caused by terrorist acts or acts of war. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could harm our business and results of operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than in the United States. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could further harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our International Operations In recent years, a significant amount of our revenue has come from sales outside of the United States, and we are therefore subject to a number of risks associated with international sales and operations. We have a limited history of marketing, selling, and supporting our products and services internationally. However, consumers in countries outside of North America accounted for 22% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 and we expect that percentage to grow in the future. As a result, we must hire and train experienced personnel to staff and manage our foreign operations. To the extent that we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing, and retaining an international staff, and specifically staff related to sales management and sales personnel, we may experience difficulties in sales productivity in foreign markets. If we are not able to increase the sales of our solutions to consumers located outside of North America, our results of operations or revenue growth may be harmed. In addition, in connection with our expansion into foreign markets, we are a receiver of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, will negatively affect our net sales and gross margins as expressed in U.S. dollars. There is also a risk that we will have to adjust local currency product pricing due to competitive pressures when there has been significant volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. Our limited experience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that our current and any future international expansion efforts will not be successful. Conducting 31 Table of Contents international operations subjects us to risks that, generally, we do not face in the United States, including: •Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •Unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; •Longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •Difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, including differences in labor laws; •Potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •Localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; •Localization of our customer agreements under applicable foreign law; •The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards, including laws and regulations related to privacy and data security and limitations on liability; •Increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; •Political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and •Reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The impact of any one of these risks could harm our international business and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing, acquiring or integrating operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Due to the global nature of our business, we could be harmed by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions in which we operate, or various international trade and export laws. The global nature of our business creates various domestic and local regulatory challenges. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the "U.K. Bribery Act"), and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, U.S.-based companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. We operate in areas of the world that experience corruption by government officials to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our global operations require us to import from and export to several countries, which geographically stretches our compliance obligations. In addition, changes in such laws could result in increased regulatory requirements and compliance costs which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our employees or other agents may engage in prohibited conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or similar anti-corruption laws. If we are found to be in violation of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws (either due to acts or inadvertence of our employees, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could harm our business. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property From time to time, we are defendants in legal proceedings as to which we are unable to assess our exposure and which could become significant liabilities in the event of an adverse judgment. We are defendants in legal proceedings from time to time. Companies in our industry have been subject to claims related to patent infringement and product liability, as well as contract and employment-related claims. We may not be able to accurately assess the risks related to these suits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. In 2012 and 2013, we entered into three separate settlement agreements relating to alleged patent infringements, which included future royalty payments on certain products, the payment of a lump sum amount for alleged past damages, and/or the payment of a fixed amount in exchange for a covenant not to sue. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights adequately, our business could be harmed. We believe that proprietary technology is essential to establishing and maintaining our leadership position. We seek to protect our intellectual property through trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality, non-compete and nondisclosure agreements, patents, trademarks, domain names and other measures, some of which afford only limited protection. We also rely on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our technology or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology, or design around our intellectual property. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Intellectual property protections may also be unavailable, limited or difficult to enforce in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Our failure or inability to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management's attention, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in such action. Furthermore, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights than we do. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. An assertion by a third party that we are infringing its intellectual property could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses that could harm our business and results of operations. The industries in which we compete are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have been subject to patent litigation in the past and we may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Given that our solution integrates with all aspects of the home, the risk that our solution may be subject to these allegations is exacerbated. As we seek to extend our solutions, we could be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, our dealer and distributor contracts require us to indemnify them against certain liabilities they may incur as a result of our infringement of any third-party intellectual property. We might not prevail in any intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in such litigation. Defending such claims, regardless of their merit, could be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or settlement, cause development delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, we 33 Table of Contents currently have a limited portfolio of issued patents compared to our larger competitors, and therefore may not be able to effectively utilize our intellectual property portfolio to assert defenses or counterclaims in response to patent infringement claims or litigation brought against us by third parties. Further, litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant products or revenues and against which our potential patents provide no deterrence, and many other potential litigants have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. If our solutions exceed the scope of in-bound licenses or violate any third-party proprietary rights, we could be required to withdraw those solutions from the market, re-develop those solutions or seek to obtain licenses from third parties, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Any efforts to re-develop our solutions, obtain licenses from third parties on favorable terms or license a substitute technology might not be successful and, in any case, might substantially increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were compelled to withdraw any of our solutions from the market, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We are generally obligated to indemnify our dealers, distributors and partners for certain expenses and liabilities resulting from intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products, which could force us to incur substantial costs. We have agreed, and expect to continue to agree, to indemnify our dealers, distributors and partners for certain intellectual property infringement claims regarding our products. As a result, in the case of infringement claims against these dealers, distributors and partners, we could be required to indemnify them for losses resulting from such claims or to refund amounts they have paid to us. We expect that some of our dealers, distributors and partners may seek indemnification from us in connection with infringement claims brought against them. We evaluate each such request on a case-by-case basis and we may not succeed in refuting all such claims. If a dealer, distributor or partner elects to invest resources in enforcing a claim for indemnification against us, we could incur significant costs disputing it. If we do not succeed in disputing it, we could face substantial liability. The use of open source software in our solutions may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property. Some of our solutions use or incorporate software that is subject to one or more open source licenses. Open source software is typically freely accessible, usable and modifiable. Certain open source software licenses require a user who intends to distribute the open source software as a component of the user's software to disclose publicly part or all of the source code to the user's software. In addition, certain open source software licenses require the user of such software to make any derivative works of the open source code available to others on potentially unfavorable terms or at no cost. The terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and accordingly there is a risk that those licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. In that event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solutions, to re-develop our solutions, to discontinue sales of our solutions or to release our proprietary software code under the terms of an open source license, any of which could harm our business. Further, given the nature of open source software, it may be more likely that third parties might assert copyright and other intellectual property infringement claims against us based on our use of these open source software programs. While we monitor the use of all open source software in our products, solutions, processes and technology and seek to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product or solution when we do not wish to do so, we are currently conducting a comprehensive audit of open source software contained in our solutions. 34 Table of Contents Although we are not aware of any use of open source software in our solutions that would require us to disclose all or a portion of the source code underlying our solutions, we have not completed our open source software audit; therefore, it is possible that such use may have inadvertently occurred in deploying our solutions. Additionally, if a third-party software provider has incorporated certain types of open source software into software we license from such third party for our solutions without our knowledge, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our solutions. This could harm our intellectual property position and our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the availability of third-party licenses. If these licenses are available to us only on less favorable terms or not at all in the future, our business and results of operations may be harmed. We have incorporated third-party licensed technology into our products. It may be necessary in the future to renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products or to seek additional licenses for existing or new products. The necessary licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights, or to obtain those licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could result in our inability to include certain features in our products or delays in product releases until such time, if ever, as equivalent technology could be identified, licensed or developed and integrated into our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. Failure to maintain the security of our information and technology networks, including information relating to our dealers, distributors, consumers and employees, could adversely affect us. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and, in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain certain information pertaining to our dealers, distributors, consumers and employees. The legal, regulatory and contractual environment surrounding information security and privacy is constantly evolving and companies that collect and retain such information are under increasing attack by cyber-criminals around the world. A significant actual or potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or misuse of dealer, distributor, consumer, employee or other personally identifiable data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could result in significant costs, fines, litigation or regulatory actions against us. Such an event could additionally result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security and reliability of our services. Security breaches of, or sustained attacks against, this infrastructure could create system disruptions and shutdowns that could result in disruptions to our operations. We cannot be certain that advances in cyber-capabilities or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access our products and services. If any one of these risks materializes our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services allow unauthorized third parties to obtain control or access of our consumers' appliances containing our products, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Certain of our employees and dealers can access and update certain of our home automation products and services through the Internet. If security breaches in connection with the delivery of our services via the Internet allow unauthorized third parties to obtain control of our consumers' appliances containing our products, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be 35 Table of Contents harmed. Furthermore, although we do not recommend or approve of port forwarding for remote access to our solutions, certain of our dealers have in the past and may in the future enable port forwarding, which could create security vulnerabilities in a consumer's home network. If security breaches in connection with the delivery of our solutions occur, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our share price may be volatile, which may result in securities class action litigation against us. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and other factors beyond our control, including: •Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and results of operations; •Overall conditions in our industry and market; •Addition or loss of consumers; •Changes in laws or regulations applicable to our solutions; •Actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; •Announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •Additions or departures of key personnel; •Competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; •Issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; •Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; •Disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our technologies; •Sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; •Share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; •The expiration of contractual lock-up agreements with our executive officers, directors and stockholders; and •General economic and market conditions. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may harm the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business. 36 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price will likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish research or reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock limits your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2013, our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, 65.8% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: •Delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; •Impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or •Discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated include provisions that: •Authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 25,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; •Require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; •Specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President; •Establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; •Provide that directors may be removed only for cause; •Provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; •Establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes—Class I, Class II and Class III—with each class serving staggered terms; and 37 Table of Contents •Require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control. These provisions may also frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 