Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this Report before making an investment decision. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to our Business If we are not successful with our local search initiative, our future financial performance may be affected. Since August 9, 2005, we have been operating Local.com, a consumer facing destination website specializing in local search and content. Since the third quarter of 2007, we have been operating our local syndication network which provides local search results and local content to our publisher partners. Since the third quarter of 2009, we have been operating a distribution network that provides organic and third party advertising feeds to hundreds of websites. We have and expect to continue to invest significant amounts of time and resources in our Local.com website, local syndication network, our distribution network and other similar initiatives, including our Octane360 platform launched in the third quarter of 2010. We cannot assure you that we will continue to sustain or grow our current revenue from these or other local search initiatives. We also cannot assure you that we will sustain or grow the number of consumers or advertisers that use or advertise on Local.com or other network offerings. If we are unable to sustain or grow the number of consumers using and/or advertisers advertising with Local.com, our local syndication and distribution networks, and our Octane360 platform, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We have historically incurred losses and expect to incur losses in the future, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a history of losses. We had a net loss of $6.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also had an accumulated deficit of $54.8 million at December 31, 2010, reduced from prior year due to net income for the current year of $4.2 million. We have significantly increased our operating expenses by expanding our operations, including through acquisitions, in order to grow our business and further develop and maintain our services. Such increases in operating expense levels may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to immediately realize benefits from such expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable or generate sufficient profits from operations in the future. If our revenue does not grow, we may experience a loss in one or more future periods. We may not be able to reduce or maintain our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenue, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. Our advertising partners may unilaterally change how they value our inventory of available advertising placements, which could materially affect our advertising revenue. Recently, Microsoft’s Bing began charging advertisers less for our search traffic, which resulted in less RPC for our search results than Yahoo! had paid prior to the Yahoo!-Bing integration. If we are unable to improve RPC in the near term, these recent changes to the Yahoo! search and advertising platform could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. Our advertising partners, such as Yahoo!, may unilaterally change how they value our inventory of available advertising placements for any number of reasons, including changes in their services, changes in pricing, algorithms or advertising relationships. We have little control over such decisions. If our advertising partners pay us less for our advertising inventory, our advertising revenue would be materially adversely affected. We are actively working with Yahoo! to improve RPC and are also pursuing a number of other strategies, including, but not limited to, optimization of our SEM campaigns as well as optimization and deployment of 10 Table of Contents advertiser feeds from existing and new partners. These and other strategies are intended to preserve revenue and net income. However, we cannot give assurances that our efforts to improve monetization with Yahoo! or any of the alternative strategies will be successful. If we are unable to improve RPC in the near term, our business and financial results may be materially harmed and our revenue and net income going forward may be lower than we reported for the fourth quarter 2010. Until the drop in RPC, we had derived about half of our revenue from the display of advertising from Yahoo!. If we are unable to increase our RPC under the Yahoo!-Bing advertising platform, then our business revenues and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. In addition, any decreases in the breadth or depth of advertising available for display or any increase in our traffic acquisitions costs could materially adversely affect our ability to produce revenue and margin that is comparable to our historical results, in which case our business and financial results may be significantly harmed. Recent changes to our Local.com website could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we launched our redesigned Local.com website. The impact of the relaunch of our Local.com website will have on the ability of the Local.com website to generate revenue and margin comparable to the website’s historical performance is uncertain. Any deterioration in the number of visits, click-throughs, page views, searches and other important metrics or any increase in traffic acquisition costs compared to historical results could materially adversely affect our ability to produce revenue and margin that is comparable to our historical results, in which case our business and financial results may be significantly harmed. If we fail to maintain the number of customers purchasing our monthly subscription products, our revenue and our business could be harmed. Our announced suspension of LEC-billed subscriber bases is expected to result in a decline in revenue and earnings. Our monthly subscription customers do not have long-term obligations to purchase our products or services and many will cancel their subscriptions each month. As a result of this customer churn, we must continually add new monthly subscription customers to replace customers who cancelled and to grow our business beyond our current customer base. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we announced that we suspended acquisitions of LEC-billed subscriber bases in order to concentrate our resources around the Octane360 product suite powered by our recently acquired Octane360 platform. As a result, we anticipate revenue from our existing subscribers to decline as the number of subscribers churns out. As we shift our efforts to focus on the sale of our Octane360 products, we initially do not anticipate that the revenues from those efforts will fully-offset the decline in revenue from existing subscribers as they churn out as anticipated. Any decline in subscriber revenue and related margin could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. We have recently acquired assets and businesses and may face risks with integration and performance of these assets and businesses. As part of our business strategy, in July 2010, we acquired the assets of Octane360, a technology startup providing domain-based local advertising solutions to small businesses, domain portfolio owners, agencies and channel partners. We are continuing to integrate the Octane360 business with our existing business, products and services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the Octane360 business into our operations or that the sale of Octane360 products and services by us will be successful. In January 2011, we acquired the assets of iTwango LLC., including a technology platform that enables group-buying of discounted daily deals by consumers from local businesses. We are in the process of developing the iTwango business and have formed a new Social Buying business unit for that purpose. Notwithstanding our efforts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully launch the Social Buying business and integrate it into our operations. Additionally, the daily deals business is highly competitive and we face intense competition from larger, more established companies and we may not be able to compete effectively. 11 Table of Contents In February 2011, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to acquire the assets of Rovion, a rich media advertising company which sells, creates, delivers and tracks rich media advertising. The completion of the Rovion transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions, including the seller of the Rovion assets receiving necessary shareholder and debtholder approval. If the transaction is completed, we will begin the process of integrating the Rovion business with our existing business, products and services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the Rovion business into our operations or that the sale of Rovion products and services by us will be successful. We may enter into additional acquisitions, business combinations or strategic alliances in the future. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology, which require a substantial commitment of resources and management’s attention, may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The acquisition of a company or business is accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation: • the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies; • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company with and into our operations, which are headquartered in Irvine, California; • the failure to retain key personnel at the companies we acquire; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • the impairment of relationships with customers of the acquired company or our own customers and partners as a result of any integration of operations; • the impairment of relationships with employees of our own business as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • inability or difficulty in reconciling potentially conflicting or overlapping contractual rights and duties; • the potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company, including intellectual property claims made by third parties against the acquired company; and • the failure of an acquired company to perform as planned and to negatively impact our overall financial results. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions of Octane360 or iTwango, or that we could encounter in future acquisitions, including Rovion, which would harm our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Two of our advertising partners have provided a substantial portion of our revenue; the loss of either of these partners may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our advertising partner, Yahoo! Inc., represented 43% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, and our advertising partner, SuperMedia Inc., represented 24% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. It is difficult to predict whether Yahoo! and SuperMedia will continue to represent such a significant portion of our revenue in the future. Additionally, our contracts with each of these advertising partners are generally short term in nature, with Yahoo!’s contract expiring in July 2011 and SuperMedia’s contract expiring in June 2013. Upon expiration of these agreements, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed, or, if these agreements are renewed, that we would receive the same or a higher revenue share as we do under the current agreement, or involve the same amount of use of our paid-search services as currently used, or contain the same 12 Table of Contents rights as they currently do, in which case our business and financial results may be harmed. Additionally, there can be no assurance that if we enter into an arrangement with alternative advertising partners the terms would be as favorable as those under the current Yahoo! and SuperMedia agreements. Even if we were to enter into an arrangement with an alternative advertising partners with terms as or more favorable than those under the current agreements with Yahoo! and SuperMedia, such arrangements might generate significantly lower search advertising revenues for us if the alternative advertising partners are not able to generate advertising revenues as successfully as Yahoo! and SuperMedia currently generate. Two customers account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable, and the failure to collect from these customers would harm our financial condition and results of operations. While most of our customers pay for our services in advance, some do not. Two of our customers that do not pay in advance, Yahoo! and SuperMedia, have and for the foreseeable future will likely continue to account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable. At December 31, 2010, Yahoo! and SuperMedia represented 55% of our total accounts receivable. Yahoo! and SuperMedia’s accounts have been, and will likely continue to be, unsecured and any failure to collect on those accounts would harm our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the traffic to our Local.com website is acquired from other search engines, mainly google.com, the loss of the ability to acquire traffic could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. We advertise on other search engine websites, primarily google.com, but also yahoo.com, MSN/bing.com and ask.com, by bidding on certain keywords we believe will drive traffic to our Local.com website. During the year ending December 31, 2010, approximately 68% of the traffic on our Local.com website and network partner websites was acquired through SEM campaigns on other search engine websites. During the year ended December 31, 2010, advertising costs to drive consumers to our Local.com website were $30.8 million of which $22.5 million was paid to Google, Inc. If we are unable to advertise on these websites, or the cost to advertise on these websites increases, our financial results will suffer. Problems with our computer and communication systems may harm our business. A key element of our strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic across our network infrastructure to and from our advertising partners and local syndication and distribution networks. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our software systems, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain advertising customers, as well as maintain adequate customer service levels. We may experience periodic systems interruptions. Any substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our software systems or network infrastructure will require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our network infrastructure or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, as well as our own advertising partners, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services. The online paid-search market is intensely competitive. Our primary current competitors include Yahoo! Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc. and online directories, such as Yellowpages.com. Although we currently pursue a strategy that allows us to partner with a broad range of websites and search engines, our current and future partners may view us as a threat to their own internal paid-search services. Nearly all of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may secure more favorable revenue sharing agreements with network distributors, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive growth strategies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we do. In addition, the search industry has experienced consolidation, including the acquisitions of companies offering paid-search services. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger, more established and well-financed competitors with a 13 Table of Contents greater focus on paid-search services. If these industry trends continue, or if we are unable to compete in the paid-search market, our financial results may suffer. We are dependent on third-party products, services and technologies; changes to existing products, services and technologies or the advent of new products, services and technologies could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our ability to use and interact with many third-party products, services and technologies, such as browsers, data and search indices, and privacy software. Any changes made by third parties or consumers to the settings, features or functionality of these third-party products, services and technologies or the development of new products, services and technologies that interfere with or disrupt our products, services and technologies could adversely affect our business. For instance, if a major search index were to alter its algorithms in a manner that resulted in our content not being indexed as often or appearing as high in its search results, our consumers might not be able to reach and use our content, products and services and our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, if more consumers were to switch their browsers to higher security settings to restrict the acceptance of cookies from the websites they visit, our ability to effectively use cookies to track consumer behavior in our business could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. We rely on our advertising partners to provide us access to their advertisers, and if they do not, it could have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on our advertising partners to provide us with advertiser listings so that we can distribute these listings to Local.com and our network partners in order to generate revenue when a consumer click-through or other paid event occurs on our advertising partners’ sponsored listings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 72% of our revenue was derived from our advertising partners. Most of our agreements with our advertising partners are short-term, and, as a result, they may discontinue their relationship with us or negotiate new terms that are less favorable to us, at any time, with little or no notice. Our success depends, in part, on the maintenance and growth of our advertising partners. If we are unable to develop or maintain relationships with these partners, our operating results and financial condition could suffer. We are dependent on network partners to provide us with local search traffic and access to local advertisers, and if they do not, our business could be harmed. We have contracts with our network partners to provide us with either local search traffic or access to local advertisers. Our network partners are very important to our revenue and results of operations. Any adverse change in our relationships with key network partners could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. In many cases, our agreements with these network partners are short-term and/or subject to many variables which enable us or our network partners to discontinue our relationship or negotiate new terms that are less favorable to us with little or no notice. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our current network partners or develop relationships with prospective network partners on terms that are acceptable to us, our operating results and financial condition could suffer. Any decline in the number and/or quality of our network partners could adversely affect the value of our services. The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results, or financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted levels of consumer spending. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers, such as advertisers, may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously performed services. In addition, if consumer spending continues to decrease, this may result in fewer clicks on our advertisers’ ads displayed on our Local.com website or our network partner websites. 14 Table of Contents The current global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions may have significant negative effects on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital. We have historically relied on private placements of our equity to fund our operations. On January 20, 2011, we completed a underwritten public offering of 4,600,000 shares of our common stock at $4.25 per share, resulting in net proceeds to us of $18.2 million. On June 28, 2010, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, replacing our line of credit with Square 1 Bank that expired by its terms on June 25, 2010. The loan agreement provides us with a revolving credit facility of up to $30.0 million. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility is June 28, 2013. As of December 31, 2010, we had $7.0 million in borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility and total availability of $23 million. We must meet certain financial covenants during the term of the revolving credit facility, including maintaining a minimum adjusted quick ratio of 1.25 to 1, which is a ratio of our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents plus net billed accounts receivable and investments that mature in fewer than 12 months to our current liabilities minus deferred revenue, warrant liability and plus 25% of any outstanding credit extensions under the revolving credit facility. We are also required to maintain a leverage ratio of not greater than 2.5 at the end of each fiscal quarter through June 30, 2012, and 2.0 at the end of each fiscal quarter thereafter. In addition, our quarterly adjusted EBITDA must equal at least $1,000,000 (this minimum amount is for financial covenant purposes only, and does not represent projections or expectations of our future financial results). As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all such financial covenants; however, we cannot assure you that we will remain in compliance with our financial covenants in the future. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants, the lender may declare an event of default under the loan agreement, in which event all outstanding borrowings would become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient cash on hand to repay such outstanding borrowings if an event of default were declared under the loan agreement. The recent global financial crisis which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to raise capital or obtain credit when needed, or on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our success, and the loss of these officers and key personnel could harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. While we have employment agreements with our five executive officers and certain key personnel, each of these may, however, be terminated with 30 days notice by either party. No key man life insurance has been purchased on any of our executive officers. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The failure to attract and retain our officers or the necessary technical, managerial and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The market for Internet and local search advertising services is in the early stages of development, and if the market for our services decreases it will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Internet marketing and advertising, in general, and paid-search, in particular, are in the early stages of development. Our future revenue and profits are substantially dependent upon the continued widespread acceptance, growth, and use of the Internet and other online services as effective advertising mediums. Many of the largest advertisers have generally relied upon more traditional forms of media advertising and have only limited experience advertising on the Internet. Local search, in particular, is still in an early stage of development and may not be accepted by consumers for many reasons including, among others, that consumers may conclude that local 15 Table of Contents search results are less relevant and reliable than non-paid-search results, and may view paid-search results less favorably than search results generated by non-paid-search engines. If consumers reject our paid-search services, or commercial use of the Internet generally, and the number of click-throughs on our sponsored listings decreases, the commercial utility of our search services could be adversely affected which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that our anticipated future growth, including through potential acquisitions, may strain our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, which could adversely affect our business. We anticipate that significant expansion of our present operations will be required to capitalize on potential growth in market opportunities. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect to add a significant number of additional key personnel in the future, including key managerial and technical employees who will have to be fully integrated into our operations. In order to manage our growth, we will be required to continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems, to expand existing operations, to attract and retain superior management, and to train, manage and expand our employee base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations or that our management will be able to successfully implement our business plan. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. As a result of our acquisition of Inspire Infrastructure 2i AB, the purchase of Local.com domain name, the Atlocal asset purchase, the acquisition of PremierGuide, Inc., the acquisition of Simply Static, LLC (doing business as Octane360), the acquisition of the iTwango technology platform, and the purchase of subscribers from LiveDeal, Inc., LaRoss Partners, Inc., Turner Consulting Group, LLC, and Best Click Advertising.com, LLC, we have recorded substantial goodwill and intangible assets in our consolidated financial statements. We are required to perform impairment reviews of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which are determined to have an indefinite life and are not amortized. Such reviews are performed annually or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. We performed our annual impairment analysis as of December 31, 2010, and determined that no impairment existed. Future impairment reviews may result in charges against earnings to write-down the value of intangible assets. If we are not successful in defending against the patent infringement lawsuit filed against us, our operations could be materially adversely affected. On July 23, 2010, a lawsuit alleging patent infringement was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against us and others in our sector, by GEOTAG, Inc., a Delaware corporation with its principal offices in Plano, Texas. The complaint alleges that we infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,930,474 (hereinafter, the “ ‘474 Patent”) as a result of the operation of our website at www.local.com. GEOTAG, Inc. purports to be the rightful assignee of all right, title and interest in and to the ‘474 Patent. The complaint seeks unspecified amounts of damages and costs incurred, including attorney fees, as well as a permanent injunction preventing us from continuing those activities that are alleged to infringe the ‘474 Patent. If it is determined that we have infringed the ‘474 Patent, we could be subject to damages and a permanent injunction that could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. In addition, this litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because of defense costs, diversion of management’s attention and resources and other factors. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business and divert our managerial and other resources. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that third parties will not, in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future services, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to 16 Table of Contents protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others in the process. There can be no guarantee that any of our intellectual property will be adequately safeguarded, or that it will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if we willfully infringe, and, also, could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Any patent litigation could negatively impact our business by diverting resources and management attention away from other aspects of our business and adding uncertainty as to the ownership of technology and services that we view as proprietary and essential to our business. In addition, a successful claim of patent infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license for the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to lawsuits for information displayed on our websites and the websites of our advertisers, which may affect our business. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their advertisers and for the content of their advertisers’ listings are currently unsettled. It is unclear whether we could be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories relating to the information we publish on our websites or the information that is published across our network of websites and partner websites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by our advertisers. Our potential liability for unlawful activities of our advertisers or for the content of our advertisers’ listings could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources or to discontinue certain service offerings. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of claims and the defense of such claims may divert the attention of our management from our operations. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business. If we do not deliver traffic that converts into revenue for advertisers, then our advertisers and our advertising partners may pay us less for their listing or discontinue listings with us. For our services to be successful, we need to deliver consumers to advertisers’ websites that convert into sales for the advertiser. If we do not meet advertisers’ expectations by delivering quality traffic, then our advertisers may pay us less for their monthly subscription listings and our advertising partners may pay us less per click or in both cases, cease doing business with us altogether, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. We compete with other web search services, online publishers and high-traffic websites, as well as traditional media such as television, radio and print, for a share of our advertisers’ total advertising expenditures. Many potential advertisers and advertising agencies have only limited experience advertising on the Internet and have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures to paid-search. Acceptance of our advertising offerings among our advertisers and advertising partners will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the 17 Table of Contents continued growth of commercial usage of the Internet. If we experience downward pricing pressure for our services in the future, our financial results may suffer. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers and advertising partners, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent or illegitimate clicks on our sponsored listings. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs because the fraudulent clicks will not lead to revenue for the advertisers. As a result, our advertisers and advertising partners may become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which could lead to loss of advertisers, advertising partners and revenue. If we do not continue to develop and offer compelling content, products and services, our ability to attract new consumers or maintain the engagement of our existing consumers could be adversely affected. We believe we must offer compelling content, products and services in order to attract new consumers and maintain the engagement of our existing consumers. Our ability to acquire, develop and offer new content, products and services, as well as new features, functionality and enhanced performance for our existing content, services and products requires substantial costs and efforts. The consumer reception of any new offerings we may make is unknown and subject to consumer sentiment that is difficult to predict. If we are unable to provide content, products, and services that are sufficiently attractive and relevant to consumers (including subscribers to our monthly subscription listing products), we may not be able to attract new consumers or maintain or increase our existing consumers’ engagement with our Local.com site or our other offerings. Even if we are successful in the development and offering of compelling content, products, features, and services, we may not be able to attract new consumers or maintain or increase our existing consumers’ engagement. If we cannot continue to develop and offer effective advertising products and services, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. We believe that growth in our advertising revenues depends on our ability to continue offering our advertisers and publishers with effective products and services. Developing new and improving upon our existing products and services may require significant effort and expense. If we are unable to develop and improve our advertising products and services, including those that more effectively or efficiently plan, price or target advertising, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. If our billing partners lose the ability to bill our monthly subscription customers through LECs on those monthly subscription customers’ telephone bills it would adversely impact our results of operations. We currently maintain a billing relationship with certain third parties that bill some of our monthly subscription customers for us through each customer’s LEC. These third parties are approved to bill our products and services directly on most of our monthly subscription customers’ local telephone bills through their LEC, commonly referred to as their local telephone company. In fiscal 2010, approximately 87% of our monthly subscription customers were billed via LEC billing and revenue from LEC billing represented 15% of our total revenue in fiscal 2010. The existence of the LECs is the result of federal legislation. As such, Congress could pass future legislation that obviates the existence of or the need for the LECs. Additionally, regulatory agencies could limit or prevent the ability of our third-party partners to use the LECs to bill our monthly subscription customers. Similarly, the introduction of and advancement of new technologies, such as WiFi technology or other wireless-related technologies, could render unnecessary the existence of fixed telecommunication lines, which also could obviate the need for and access to the LECs. Finally, our third-party billing partners have historically been affected by the LECs’ internal policies. With respect to certain LECs, such policies are becoming more stringent. The inability on the part of our third-party billing partners to use the LECs to bill our advertisers through their monthly telephone bills could reduce the rate at which we are able to acquire new monthly subscription customers and increase the churn rate of our existing monthly subscription customers and would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our revenue may decline over time due to the involvement of the alternative telephone suppliers in the local telephone markets. Due to competition in the telephony industry, many business customers are finding alternative telephone suppliers, such as Competitive LECs, cable companies, VOIP offerings, and the like that offer less expensive alternatives to the LECs. When the LECs effectuate a price increase, many business customers look for an alternative telephone supplier. When our monthly subscription customers switch service providers from the LECs to an alternate telephone supplier, our third-party billing partners may be precluded from billing these monthly subscription customers on their monthly telephone bill and we must instead convert them to alternative billing methods such as credit card. This conversion process can be disruptive to our operations and result in lost revenue. We cannot provide any assurances that our efforts will be successful. The inability on the part of our third-party billing partners to use the LECs to bill our advertisers through their monthly telephone bills could reduce the rate at which we are able to acquire new monthly subscription customers and increase the churn rate of our existing monthly subscription customers and would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to efficiently bill our monthly subscription customers depends upon our third-party billing partners. We currently depend upon our third-party billing partners to efficiently bill and collect monies through LEC billing. We currently have agreements with two third-party billing partners. Any disruption in these third parties’ ability to perform these functions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our monthly subscription customers file complaints against us or our partners, we could be forced to refund material amounts of monthly subscription revenues and our ability to operate our subscription service could be adversely impacted, which would adversely affect our results of operation. We have internal and outsourced telesales initiatives that could result in complaints from our monthly subscription customers against us or our third-party partners who dispute that they have agreed to receive and be billed for our monthly subscription services. Monthly subscription customers may also direct their complaints to a state’s attorney general’s office, federal agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission, their LEC and other authorities. If a complaint is directed to an attorney general, a Federal agency, a LEC or other authorities, we may be forced to alter or curtail our sales and billing activity and to refund the monthly subscription fees that have already been collected for services rendered in unknown amounts. If this were to happen, our financial results could be materially impacted. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Our success is substantially dependent upon our proprietary technology, which relates to a variety of business and transactional processes associated with our paid-search advertising model, our Keyword DNA technology and our Local Connect search and advertising platform. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and technical measures, to protect our proprietary rights. We have been issued seven patents and although we have filed additional patent applications on certain parts of our technology, much of our proprietary information may not be patentable. We cannot assure you that we will develop proprietary technologies that are patentable or that any pending patent applications will be issued or that their scope is broad enough to provide us with meaningful protection. We own the trademarks for Local.com, OCTANE360, Pay Per Connect, Local Promote, Local Connect and Keyword DNA, among others, in the United States and may claim trademark rights in, and apply for trademark registrations in the United States for a number of other marks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure significant protection for these marks. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology or duplicate our services or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business and our operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We rely on third-party technology, server and hardware providers, and a failure of service by any of these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely upon third-party data center providers to host our main servers and expect to continue to do so. In the event that these providers experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. In the past, we have experienced short-term outages in the service maintained by one of our current co-location providers. We also rely on third-party providers for components of our technology platform, such as hardware and software providers, credit card processors and domain name registrars. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third-party providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. If we fail to scale and adapt our existing technology architecture to manage the expansion of our offerings our business could be adversely affected. We anticipate expanding our offerings to consumers, advertisers and publishers. Any such expansion will require substantial expenditures to scale or adapt our technology infrastructure. As usage increases and products and services expand, change or become more complex in the future, our complex technology architectures utilized for our consumer offerings and advertising services may not provide satisfactory support. As a result, we may make additional changes to our architectures and systems to deliver our consumer offerings and services to advertisers and publishers, including moving to completely new technology architectures and systems. Such changes may be challenging to implement and manage, may take time to test and deploy, may cause us to incur substantial costs and may cause us to suffer data loss or delays or interruptions in service. These delays or interruptions in service may cause consumers, advertisers and publishers to become dissatisfied with our offerings and could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to a number of natural and man-made risks, including natural disasters such as fires, floods, and earthquakes and problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disaster and man-made problems, including fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. As an example, if we were to experience a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, it likely would have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage will likely be insufficient to compensate us for all of the losses we incur. Additionally, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential intellectual property or customer data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the Southern California area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide customer service, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, which could have an adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. State and local governments may be able to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. Beginning in 1998, the federal government imposed a moratorium on state and local governments’ imposition of new taxes on Internet access and eCommerce transactions, which has now expired. State and local governments may be able to levy additional taxes on Internet access and eCommerce transactions unless the moratorium is reinstituted. Any increase in applicable taxes may make eCommerce transactions less attractive for businesses and consumers, which could result in a decrease in eCommerce activities and the level of usage of our services. 20 Table of Contents Federal, state or international laws or regulations applicable to our business could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of existing federal, state and international laws and regulations in the areas of advertising, content regulation, privacy, consumer protection, defamation, child protection, advertising to and collecting information from children, taxation and billing, among others. These laws can change, as can the interpretation and enforcement of these laws. Additionally, new laws and regulations may be enacted at any time. Compliance with laws is often costly and time consuming and may result in the diversion of a significant portion of management’s attention. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. Specific federal laws that impact our business include The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, The Communications Decency Act of 1996, The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (including related Federal Trade Commission regulations), The Protect Our Children Act of 2008, and The Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986. Additionally, there are a number of state laws and pending legislation governing the breach of data security in which sensitive consumer information is released or accessed. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations we could be subject to significant liability which could adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with federal, state or international privacy laws or regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations that govern the collection, retention, use, sharing and security of consumer data. Existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. Additionally, it is possible that existing laws may be expanded upon or new laws passed that would require our compliance. Any failure to comply with the existing laws, regulations, industry self-regulatory principles or our own posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data on our websites could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with industry standards or with our own privacy policies and procedures could result in a loss of consumers or advertisers and adversely affect our business. Government and legal regulations with respect to the Internet may damage our business. There are currently few significant laws or regulations directly applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet. It is possible, however, that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as the positioning of sponsored listings on search results pages. For example, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has in the past reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid-search practices to Internet users. In 2002, the FTC issued guidance recommending that all search engine companies ensure that all paid-search results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid- search is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid-search listings on search results. In February 2009, the FTC issued a staff report titled “Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising.” In December 2009, the FTC issued “Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising.” The adoption of laws, regulations, guidelines and principles relating to online advertising, including behavioral advertising, placement of paid search advertisements or user privacy, defamation or taxation and the like may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet, which in turn, could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any regulation of our use of cookies or similar technologies could adversely affect our business. We use small text files placed in a consumer’s browser, commonly known as cookies, to facilitate authentication, preference management, research and measurement, personalization and advertisement and content 21 Table of Contents delivery. Several Federal, state and international governmental authorities are regularly evaluating the privacy implications inherent in the use of third-party web “cookies” for behavioral advertising and other purposes. Any regulation of these tracking technologies and other current online advertising practices could adversely affect our business. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes against its post-change income may be limited. We performed a Section 382 study during the fourth quarter of 2010 and determined that it has more likely than not undergone five ownership changes as described in IRC Section 382. The latest ownership change occurred in December 2004. However, due to the relatively large annual limitations based on the value of the Company, the identified ownership changes had no material impact to the amount of net operation loss that can be carried forward to the future years. Any future ownership change may impact our ability to utilize the net operation loss carryforwards in the future year. At December 31, 2010, the Company had federal and state income tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $43.9 million and $41.3 million, respectively. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will expire through 2029 and 2021, respectively, unless previously utilized. On September 23, 2008, the State of California suspended the use of net operating loss carryforwards for 2008 and 2009 and on October 19, 2010, suspended the use of net operating loss carryforwards for 2010 and 2011. As a result of this suspension, we will not be able to make use of net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes for the indefinite future. There can be no guarantee that we will ever be able to use these state net operating loss carryforwards in the future. If we are not successful with developing our third-party sales channels, our future financial performance may be negatively affected. Our future revenue growth is, in part, dependent upon the development of third-party sales channels to sell certain of our products, including certain of our SAS and Octane360 products. If we are unsuccessful in developing these third-party sales channels or if we are not able to secure these third-party sales channels on acceptable terms, our financial performance may be negatively affected. Additionally, if we or our established third-party sales channels are not able to sell our products at sufficient prices or in sufficient volumes, our financial performance may be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing these third-party sales channels or that any third-party sales channels that are established will be successful in their efforts to sell our products. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile, which could cause investment losses for our stockholders and result in stockholder litigation with substantial costs, economic loss and diversion of our resources. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, by us or a competitor; • market acceptance of our new and existing services and technologies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • continued growth in the Internet and the infrastructure for providing Internet access and carrying Internet traffic; • introductions of new services by us or our competitors; 22 Table of Contents • enactment of new government regulations affecting our industry; • changes in the number of our advertising partners or the aggregate amount of advertising dollars spent with us; • seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage; • loss of key employees; • institution of litigation, including intellectual property litigation, by or against us; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • short selling of our stock; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and • changes in our industry and the overall economic environment. Due to the short-term nature of our advertising partner agreements and the emerging nature of the online advertising market, we may not be able to accurately predict our operating results on a quarterly basis, if at all, which may lead to volatility in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Capital Market and the market for online commerce companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation against us, whether or not a judgment is entered against us, could result in substantial costs, and potentially, economic loss, and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. As a result of these and other factors, you may not be able to resell your shares above the price you paid and may suffer a loss on your investment. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. Since our inception, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future due to our limited funds for operations. Therefore, any return on your investment would likely come only from an increase in the market value of our common stock. Certain warrants contain anti-dilution provisions that would be triggered upon an offering of our common stock and the exercise of options and warrants and other issuances of shares of common stock will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 4,037,768 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $5.02 per share, of which options to purchase approximately 1,964,612 shares were exercisable as of such date. As of December 31, 2010, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 1,334,022 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $7.88 per share. On January 20, 2011, in connection with the completion of the public offering of 4,600,000 shares of our common stock and in accordance with the anti-dilution provisions contained in each of the warrants to purchase up to 537,373 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $7.89 per share that were issued in a private placement transaction on August 1, 2007 (the “Series A Warrants”) and the warrants to purchase up to 537,373 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $9.26 per share that were issued in the same private placement transaction on August 1, 2007 (the “Series B Warrants”), the exercise price of the Series A Warrants and the Series B Warrants was reduced to $7.02 per share and $8.09 per share, respectively, and we issued an additional 66,207 Series A Warrants at an exercise price of $7.02 per share, which are immediately exercisable (the “New Series A Warrants”), and an additional 77,707 Series B Warrants at an exercise price of $8.09 per share, which are immediately exercisable (the “New Series B Warrants”). The Series A Warrants and the Series B Warrants are exercisable until February 1, 2013 23 Table of Contents and February 3, 2014, respectively, and the New Series A Warrants and the New Series B Warrants are exercisable until February 1, 2013 and February 3, 2014, respectively. The exercise of options and warrants, and the conversion of convertible securities, at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of shares of our common stock. In addition, the exercise of options and warrants will cause dilution to our existing shareholders. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our capital stock in connection with collaborations or commercial agreements or in connection with other financing efforts. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock could be dilutive to stockholders if they do not invest in future offerings. Moreover, to the extent that we issue options or warrants to purchase, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in the future and those options, warrants or other securities are exercised, converted or exchanged (or if we issue shares of restricted stock), stockholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. Because almost all of our outstanding shares are freely tradable, sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. As of January 31, 2011, we had outstanding 21,206,033 shares of common stock, of which our directors and executive officers owned 83,412 shares as of January 31, 2011 which are subject to the limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. All of the 21,122,621 remaining outstanding shares are freely tradable. In general, Rule 144 provides that any non-affiliate of ours, who has held restricted common stock for at least six months, is entitled to sell their restricted stock freely, provided that we stay current in our filings with the SEC. Because almost all of our outstanding shares are freely tradable and the shares held by our affiliates may be freely sold (subject to the Rule 144 limitations), sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and in our amended and restated bylaws: • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Chief Executive Officer, by a majority of the members of our board of directors or by the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than 10% of the votes at the meeting; • stockholder proposals to be brought before any meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures; • our board of directors is classified into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible; • newly-created directorships and vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by a majority of remaining directors, and not by our stockholders; • a director may be removed from office only for cause by the holders of at least 75% of the voting power entitled to vote at an election of directors; • our amended and restated bylaws may be further amended by our stockholders only upon a vote of at least 75% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; and 24 Table of Contents • our board of directors is authorized to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock with rights and preferences, including voting rights, designated from time to time by our board of directors. We implemented a Stockholder Rights Plan, dated October 15, 2008, which may also have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to affect changes in control. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from our company one one-thousandth (1/1000) of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.00001, which we refer to as the preferred shares, of our company at a price of $10.00, which we refer to as the purchase price, subject to adjustment. The number of shares constituting the series of preferred shares is 30,000. The Rights are intended to protect our stockholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire us and to provide the Board of Directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. The Rights may have anti-takeover effects. The Rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of the shares of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors. The Rights, however, should not affect any prospective offer or willingness to make an offer at a fair price as determined by our Board. The Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our Board of Directors. However, because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding that acquisition. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 