Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this Report before making an investment decision. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we are not successful with our Local.com initiative, our future financial performance may be affected. In March 2005, we purchased the Local.com domain name. On August 9, 2005, we launched Local.com, a consumer facing destination website specializing in local search. This site is our first consumer facing business and we intend to invest significant amounts of time and resources on Local.com We cannot assure you that we will be successful in growing revenue from local search, in attracting consumers or advertisers to Local.com, or in achieving a positive impact on our operational and financial performance with Local.com. If we are unable to attract consumers and/or advertisers to Local.com, our financial performance may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We have historically incurred losses and expect to incur losses in the future, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a history of losses. We had a net loss of $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $18.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. We also had an accumulated deficit of $57.8 million at December 31, 2008 and expect to have a net loss for at least the next quarter. We have significantly increased our operating expenses by expanding our operations in order to grow our business and further develop and maintain our services. Such increases in operating expense levels may adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to immediately realize benefits from such expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable or generate sufficient profits from operations in the future. If our revenue does not grow, we may experience a loss in one or more future periods. We may not be able to reduce or maintain our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenue, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, as well as our own advertising partners, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services. The online paid-search market is intensely competitive. Our primary current competitors include Yahoo! Inc., Google Inc. and online directories, such as Switchboard. Although we currently pursue a strategy that allows us to partner with a broad range of websites and search engines, our current and future partners may view us as a threat to their own internal paid-search services. Nearly all of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may secure more favorable revenue sharing agreements with network distributors, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive growth strategies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we do. In addition, the search industry has experienced consolidation, including the acquisitions of companies offering paid-search services. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger, more established and well-financed competitors with a greater focus on paid-search services. If these industry trends continue, or if we are unable to compete in the paid-search market, our financial results may suffer. Additionally, larger companies such as Google and Microsoft Corporation may implement technologies into their search engines or software that make it less likely that consumers can reach, or execute searches on, Local.com and less likely to click-through on our advertising partners’ sponsored listings. The implementation of such technologies could result in a decline in click-throughs to our advertisers’ sponsored listings, which would decrease our revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete against current and future competitors or if our current Advertising Network partners choose to rely more heavily on their own distribution networks in the future, our operating results will be adversely affected. We rely on our advertising partners to provide us access to their advertisers, and if they do not, it could have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on our advertising partners to provide us with advertiser listings so that we can distribute these listings to Local.com or our private label network in order to generate revenue when a consumer click-through occurs on our advertising partners’ sponsored listings. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 90% of our revenue was derived from our advertising partners. Most of our agreements with our advertising partners are short-term, and, as a result, they may discontinue their relationship with us or negotiate new terms that are less favorable to us, at any time, with little or no notice. Our success depends, in part, on the maintenance and growth of our advertising partners. If we are unable to develop or maintain relationships with these partners, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results, or financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted levels of consumer spending. These macroeconomic 8 Table of Contents developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers such as advertisers may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously performed services. In addition, if consumer spending continues to decrease, this may result in fewer clicks on our advertisers’ ads displayed on our Local.com website. The current global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions may have significant negative effects on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital. The current global financial crisis which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our success, and the loss of these officers and key personnel could harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. We only have employment agreements with our three executive officers: Heath B. Clarke (Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board), Stanley B. Crair (President and Chief Operating Officer) and Brenda Agius (Chief Financial Officer and Secretary). Each of Messrs. Clarke and Crair and Ms. Agius’s employment agreements may be terminated with 30 days notice by either the executive or us. No key man life insurance has been purchased on any of Messrs. Clarke, Crair or Ms. Agius. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The failure to attract and retain our officers or the necessary technical, managerial and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The market for Internet and local search advertising services is in the early stages of development, and if the market for our services decreases it will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Internet marketing and advertising, in general, and paid-search, in particular, are in the early stages of development. Our future revenue and profits are substantially dependent upon the continued widespread acceptance, growth, and use of the Internet and other online services as effective advertising mediums. Many of the largest advertisers have generally relied upon more traditional forms of media advertising and have only limited experience advertising on the Internet. Local search, in particular, is still in an early stage of development and may not be accepted by consumers for many reasons including, among others, that consumers may conclude that local search results are less relevant and reliable than non-paid-search results, and may view paid-search results less favorably than search results generated by non-paid-search engines. If consumers reject our paid-search services, or commercial use of the Internet generally, and the number of click-throughs on our sponsored listings decreases, the commercial utility of our search services could be adversely affected. We expect that our anticipated future growth, including through potential acquisitions, may strain our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, which could adversely affect our business. We anticipate that significant expansion of our present operations will be required to capitalize on potential growth in market opportunities. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect to add a significant number of additional key personnel in the future, including key managerial and technical employees who will have to be fully integrated into our operations. In order to manage our growth, we will be required to continue to implement and improve our 9 Table of Contents operational and financial systems, to expand existing operations, to attract and retain superior management, and to train, manage and expand our employee base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations or that our management will be able to successfully implement our business plan. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. As a result of our acquisition of Inspire Infrastructure 2i AB, the purchase of Local.com domain name, the Atlocal asset purchase and the acquisition of PremierGuide, Inc., we have recorded substantial goodwill and intangible assets in our consolidated financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2005, due to the deterioration of revenues in Europe since the acquisition of Inspire in February 2005, we believed that the carrying amount for customer contracts and relationships was impaired. The carrying amount of customer contracts and relationships exceeded the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected and as a result, we wrote-down the remaining unamortized balance of $337,000. We are required to perform impairment reviews of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which are determined to have an indefinite life and are not amortized. Such reviews are performed annually or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. We performed our annual impairment analysis as of December 31, 2008 and determined that no impairment existed. Future impairment reviews may result in charges against earnings to write-down the value of intangible assets. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business and divert our managerial and other resources. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that third parties will not, in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future services, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others in the process. There can be no guarantee that any of our intellectual property will be adequately safeguarded, or that it will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if we willfully infringe, and, also, could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Any patent litigation could negatively impact our business by diverting resources and management attention away from other aspects of our business and adding uncertainty as to the ownership of technology and services that we view as proprietary and essential to our business. In addition, a successful claim of patent infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license for the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents We may be subject to lawsuits for information displayed on our websites and the websites of our advertisers, which may affect our business. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their advertisers and for the content of their advertisers’ listings are currently unsettled. It is unclear whether we could be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories relating to the information we publish on our websites or the information that is published across our private label network. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by our advertisers. Our potential liability for unlawful activities of our advertisers or for the content of our advertisers’ listings could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources or to discontinue certain service offerings. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of claims and the defense of such claims may divert the attention of our management from our operations. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business. Government and legal regulations may damage our business. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any government agency, other than regulations generally applicable to Internet businesses, and there are currently few significant laws or regulations directly applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet. It is possible, however, that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as the positioning of sponsored listings on search results pages. For example, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has recently reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid-search practices to Internet users. In 2002, the FTC issued guidance recommending that all search engine companies ensure that all paid-search results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid-search is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid-search listings on search results. The adoption of laws or regulations relating to placement of paid search advertisements or user privacy, defamation or taxation may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet, which in turn, could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not deliver traffic that converts into revenue for advertisers, then the advertisers may pay us less for their listing or discontinue listings with us. For our services to be successful, we need to deliver consumers to advertisers’ websites that convert into sales for the advertiser. If we do not meet advertisers’ expectations by delivering quality traffic, then they may reduce their bid prices or cease doing business with us, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent or illegitimate clicks on our sponsored listings. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs because the fraudulent clicks will not lead to revenue for the advertisers. As a result, our advertisers may become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which could lead to loss of advertisers and revenue. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Our success is substantially dependent upon our proprietary technology, which relates to a variety of business and transactional processes associated with our paid-search advertising model, our Keyword DNA technology and our Local Connect search and advertising platform. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and 11 Table of Contents trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and technical measures, to protect our proprietary rights. We have been issued three patents and although we have filed additional patent applications on certain parts of our technology, much of our proprietary information may not be patentable. We cannot assure you that we will develop proprietary technologies that are patentable or that any pending patent applications will be issued or that their scope is broad enough to provide us with meaningful protection. We own the trademarks for ePilot, Pay Per Connect and Keyword DNA in the United States and may claim trademark rights in, and apply for trademark registrations in the United States for a number of other marks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure significant protection for these marks. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology or duplicate our services or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business and our operations could be adversely affected. We may experience downward pressure on our bid prices if advertisers do not obtain a competitive return on investment, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. We may experience downward pressure on our bid prices if advertisers do not obtain a favorable return on investment from our paid-search services in comparison to our competitors’ services or other advertising methods. We compete with other web search services, online publishers and high-traffic websites, as well as traditional media such as television, radio and print, for a share of our advertisers’ total advertising expenditures. Many potential advertisers and advertising agencies have only limited experience advertising on the Internet and have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures to paid-search. Acceptance of paid-search marketing among advertisers will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the continued growth of commercial usage of the Internet. If we experience downward pricing pressure for our services in the future, our financial results may suffer. Two of our advertising partners have provided a substantial portion of our revenue; the loss of either of these partners may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our advertising partner, Yahoo! Inc., represented 45% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our advertising partner, Idearc Media Corp, represented 16% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. It is difficult to predict whether Yahoo and Idearc will continue to represent such a significant portion of our revenue in the future. Either partner may choose not to renew our agreement in the future or may choose to reduce the use of our paid-search services, in which case our business and financial results may be harmed. Two customers account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable, and the failure to collect from those customers would harm our financial condition and results of operations. While most of our customers pay for our services in advance, some do not. Two of our customers that do not pay in advance, Yahoo!, Inc. and Idearc Media Corp., have and will likely continue for the foreseeable future to account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable. At December 31, 2008, Yahoo represented 65% and Idearc represented 9% of our total accounts receivable. Yahoo’s and Idearc’s accounts have been, and will likely continue to be, unsecured and any failure to collect on those accounts would harm our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the traffic to our Local.com website is acquired from other search engines, mainly google.com, the loss of the ability to acquire traffic could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. We advertise on other search engine websites, primarily google.com, but also yahoo.com, msn.com and ask.com, by bidding on certain keywords we believe will drive traffic to our Local.com website. During the three month period ending December 31, 2008, approximately 88% of the traffic on our Local.com website was acquired from other search engine websites. During the year ended December 31, 2008, advertising costs to drive consumers 12 Table of Contents to our Local.com website were $21.3 million of which $13.8 million was paid to Google, Inc. If we are unable to advertise on these websites, or the cost to advertise on these websites increases, our financial results may suffer. Problems with our computer and communication systems may harm our business. A key element of our strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic across our network infrastructure to and from our advertising partners and private label network. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our software systems, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain advertising customers, as well as maintain adequate customer service levels. We may experience periodic systems interruptions. Any substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our software systems or network infrastructure will require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our network infrastructure or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. We rely on third party technology, server and hardware providers, and a failure of service by these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely upon third party data center providers to host our main servers and expect to continue to do so. In the event that these providers experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. In the past, we have experienced short-term outages in the service maintained by one of our current co-location providers. We also rely on third party providers for components of our technology platform, such as hardware and software providers, credit card processors and domain name registrars. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third party providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. State and local governments may be able to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. Beginning in 1998, the federal government imposed a moratorium on state and local governments’ imposition of new taxes on Internet access and eCommerce transactions, which has now expired. State and local governments may be able to levy additional taxes on Internet access and eCommerce transactions unless the moratorium is reinstituted. Any increase in applicable taxes may make eCommerce transactions less attractive for businesses and consumers, which could result in a decrease in eCommerce activities and the level of usage of our services. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile, which could cause investment losses for our stockholders and result in stockholder litigation with substantial costs, economic loss and diversion of our resources. Prior to our initial public offering, which was completed on October 22, 2004, there was no public trading market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest will support an active and liquid trading market for our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, by us or a competitor; • market acceptance of our new and existing services and technologies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 13 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • continued growth in the Internet and the infrastructure for providing Internet access and carrying Internet traffic; • introductions of new services by us or our competitors; • enactment of new government regulations affecting our industry; • changes in the number of our advertising partners; • seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage; • loss of key employees; • institution of intellectual property litigation by or against us; • success of our international expansion; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and • changes in our industry and the overall economic environment. Due to the short-term nature of our advertising partner agreements and the emerging nature of the paid-search market, we may not be able to accurately predict our operating results on a quarterly basis, if at all, which may lead to volatility in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Capital Market and the market for online commerce companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation against us, whether or not a judgment is entered against us, could result in substantial costs, and potentially, economic loss, and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. As a result of these and other factors, you may not be able to resell your shares above the price you paid and may suffer a loss on your investment. Future sales of shares of our common stock that are eligible for sale by our stockholders may decrease the price of our common stock. We had 14,446,107 shares of common stock outstanding on December 31, 2008. Of these shares, 48,053 are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, there were outstanding options to purchase 3,070,790 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 3,290,220 shares of our common stock. Actual sales, or the prospect of sales by our present stockholders or by future stockholders, may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and in our amended and restated bylaws: • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Chief Executive Officer, by a majority of the members of our board of directors or by the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than 10% of the votes at the meeting; • stockholder proposals to be brought before any meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures; • our board of directors is classified into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible; 14 Table of Contents • newly-created directorships and vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by a majority of remaining directors, and not by our stockholders; • a director may be removed from office only for cause by the holders of at least 75% of the voting power entitled to vote at an election of directors; • our amended and restated bylaws may be further amended by our stockholders only upon a vote of at least 75% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; and • our board of directors is authorized to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock with rights and preferences, including voting rights, designated from time to time by our board of directors. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes against its post-change income may be limited. We believe that with our initial public offering, our recent private placements and other transactions that have occurred over the past three years, we have triggered an “ownership change” limitation. We have performed an analysis to determine to what extent our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards is limited. We determined that our Section 382 limitation is $3.7 million a year. We may also experience ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As of December 31, 2008 we have net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $47.8 million and $41.0 million for federal and state income tax purposes, respectively. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 