Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves certain risks relating to our structure and investment objectives. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND STRUCTURE Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. We are dependent upon TICC Management’s key management personnel for our future success, particularly Jonathan H. Cohen and Saul B. Rosenthal. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the senior management of TICC Management. The senior management, together with other investment professionals, will evaluate, negotiate, structure, close, monitor and service our investments. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the senior management team, particularly Jonathan H. Cohen, the Chief Executive Officer of TICC Management, and Saul B. Rosenthal, the President and Chief Operating Officer of TICC Management. Neither Mr. Cohen nor Mr. Rosenthal will devote all of their business time to our operations, and both will have other demands on their time as a result of their other activities. Neither Mr. Cohen nor Mr. Rosenthal is subject to an employment contract. The departure of either of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage our existing portfolio and future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objective will depend on our ability to manage our existing portfolio and to grow, which will depend, in turn, on our investment adviser’s ability to identify, analyze, invest in and finance companies that meet our investment criteria, and our ability to raise and retain debt and equity capital. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our investment adviser’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and our access to financing on acceptable terms. 18 Table of Contents We and TICC Management, through its managing member, BDC Partners, will need to continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. Failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make. We compete with a large number of hedge funds and CLO investment vehicles, other equity and non-equity based investment funds, including other business development companies, investment banks and other sources of financing, including traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and specialty finance companies. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than us and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. There can be no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objective. Our business model depends upon the development and maintenance of strong referral relationships with private equity and venture capital funds and investment banking firms. If we fail to maintain our relationships with key firms, or if we fail to establish strong referral relationships with other firms or other sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our portfolio of loans and achieve our investment objective. In addition, persons with whom we have informal relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and therefore there is no assurance that such relationships will lead to the origination of debt or other investments. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. When we invest in debt securities, we may acquire warrants or other equity securities as well. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Because our investments are generally not in publicly traded securities, there is uncertainty regarding the fair value of our investments, which could adversely affect the determination of our net asset value. Our portfolio investments are generally not in publicly traded securities. As a result, the fair value of these securities is not readily determinable. We value these securities at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors based upon the recommendation of the Board’s Valuation Committee. In connection with that determination, members of TICC Management’s portfolio management team prepare portfolio company valuations using the most recent portfolio company financial statements and forecasts. We utilize the services of a third party valuation firm which prepares valuations for each of our bilateral portfolio securities that, when combined with all other investments in the same portfolio company (i) have a value as of the previous quarter of greater than or equal to 2.5% of our total assets as of the previous quarter, and (ii) have a value as of the current quarter of greater than or equal to 2.5% of our total assets as of the previous quarter, after taking into account any repayment of principal during the current quarter. In addition, the frequency of the third party valuations of our bilateral portfolio securities is based upon the grade assigned to each such security under our credit grading system as follows: Grade 1, at least annually; Grade 2, at least semi-annually; Grades 3, 4, and 5, at least quarterly. TICC Management also retains the authority to seek, on our behalf, additional third party valuations with respect to both our bilateral portfolio securities and our syndicated loan investments. On April 9, 2009, the FASB issued additional guidelines under ASC 820-10-35, “Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly,” which provides guidance on factors that should be considered in determining when a previously active market becomes inactive and whether a transaction is orderly. In accordance with ASC 820-10-35, our valuation procedures specifically provide for the review of indicative quotes supplied by the large agent banks that make a market for each security. However, the marketplace for which we obtain indicative bid quotes for purposes of determining the fair value of our syndicated loan investments have shown these attributes of illiquidity as described by ASC-820-10-35. Due to limited market liquidity in the syndicated loan market, TICC believes that the non-binding indicative bids received from agent banks for certain syndicated investments that we own may not be determinative of their fair value and therefore alternative valuation procedures may need to be undertaken. As a result, TICC has engaged third-party valuation firms to provide assistance in valuing certain syndicated investments 19 Table of Contents that we own. In addition, TICC Management prepares an analysis of each syndicated loan, including a financial summary, covenant compliance review, recent trading activity in the security, if known, and other business developments related to the portfolio company. All available information, including non-binding indicative bids which may not be determinative of fair value, is presented to the Valuation Committee to consider in its determination of fair value. In some instances, there may be limited trading activity in a security even though the market for the security is considered not active. In such cases the Valuation Committee will consider the number of trades, the size and timing of each trade, and other circumstances around such trades, to the extent such information is available, in its determination of fair value. The Valuation Committee will evaluate the impact of such additional information, and factor it into its consideration of the fair value that is indicated by the analysis provided by third-party valuation firms. We have considered the factors described in ASC 820-10 and have determined that we are properly valuing the securities in our portfolio. Our Board of Directors retains ultimate authority as to the third-party review cycle as well as the appropriate valuation of each investment. The types of factors that the Valuation Committee takes into account in providing its fair value recommendation to our Board of Directors includes, as relevant, the nature and value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to valuations of publicly traded companies, comparisons to recent sales of comparable companies, the discounted value of the cash flows of the portfolio company and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would be assessed if a readily available market for these securities existed. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. As stated above, our investments are generally not in publicly traded securities. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. Also, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, because we generally invest in debt securities with a term of up to seven years and generally intend to hold such investments until maturity of the debt, we do not expect realization events, if any, to occur in the near-term. We expect that our holdings of equity securities may require several years to appreciate in value, and we can offer no assurance that such appreciation will occur. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results, and as a result, our financial results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance of future periods. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the rate at which we make new investments, the interest rates payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Capital markets have recently been in a period of disruption and instability. These market conditions have materially and adversely affected debt and equity capital markets in the United States and abroad, which had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on our business and operations. The global capital markets have recently been in a period of disruption as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of certain major financial institutions. Despite actions of the United States federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. These conditions could return in the future. Should these conditions return, we and other companies in the financial services sector may have to access, if available, alternative markets for debt and equity capital. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions which apply to us, as a BDC we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness. The debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the recent period of extreme volatility and disruption, have had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the 20 Table of Contents valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. During portions of 2010, the economy was in the midst of a recession and in a period of tightening credit. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods as we are required to record the values of our investments. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments at fair value. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize the portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold. We may incur additional expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. These events could harm our financial condition and operating results. The recent downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the economic crisis in Europe could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, together with signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns. Although U.S. lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States from “AAA” to “AA+” in August 2011. The impact of this or any further downgrades to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, and the impact of the current crisis in Europe with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations is inherently unpredictable and could adversely effect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. There can be no assurance that governmental or other measures to aid economic recovery will be effective. These developments, and the government’s credit concerns in general, could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets on favorable terms. In addition, the decreased credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may weigh heavily on our stock price. Continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents The affect of global climate change may impact the operations of our portfolio companies. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increases in the cost of energy could adversely affect the cost of operations of our portfolio companies if the use of energy products or services is material to their business. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect some of our portfolio companies’ financial condition, through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. The impact of recent financial reform legislation on us is uncertain. In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Reform Act”) became effective on July 21, 2010, although many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act have delayed effectiveness or will not become effective until the relevant federal agencies issue new rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Reform Act. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Reform Act may have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect the Dodd-Frank Act or its implementing regulations will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. A disruption in the capital markets and the credit markets could negatively affect our business. As a BDC, we seek to maintain our ability to raise additional capital for investment purposes. Without sufficient access to the capital markets or credit markets, we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. Disruptive conditions in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict our business operations and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to grow our business could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets or to enter into new credit facilities. At various times over the past three years, reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market disruption and tightening of credit has led to increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. If we are unable to raise additional equity capital or consummate new credit facilities on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to initiate significant originations. These situations may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as access to the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a further economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, and could materially damage our business. Even though if such conditions have improved broadly and significantly over the short-term, adverse conditions in particular sectors of the financial markets could adversely impact our business over the long-term. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Depending on market conditions, we may incur substantial losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even in the event the value of your investment declines, the management fee and, in certain circumstances, the incentive fee will still be payable. The management fee is calculated as 2.0% of the value of our gross assets at a specific time. Accordingly, the management fee will be payable regardless of whether the value of our gross assets and/or your investment have decreased. Moreover, a portion of the incentive fee is payable if our net investment income for a calendar quarter exceeds a designated hurdle rate. This portion of the incentive fee is payable without regard to any capital gain, capital loss or unrealized depreciation that may occur during the quarter. Accordingly, this portion of our adviser’s incentive fee may also be payable notwithstanding a decline in net asset value that quarter. In addition, in the event we recognize deferred loan interest income in excess of our available capital as a result of our receipt of payment-in-kind, or “PIK” interest, we may be required to liquidate assets in order to pay a portion of the incentive fee. TICC Management, however, is not required to reimburse us for the portion of any incentive fees attributable to deferred loan interest income in the event of a subsequent default. 22 Table of Contents We are permitted to borrow money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. On August 10, 2011, we completed a $225,000,000 debt securitization financing transaction. The notes were issued by a newly formed special purpose vehicle in which our wholly-owned subsidiary owns all of the equity. The notes have an initial face amount of $101,250,000, are rated AAA/Aaa by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively, and bear interest, after the effective date, at three-month London Inter Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 2.25% (prior to the effective date, the Class A Notes bear interest at five-month LIBOR plus 2.25%). The notes have a stated maturity date of July 25, 2021 and are subject to a three year non-call period. TICC CLO has a three year reinvestment period. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies, and other lenders. Lenders of these senior securities have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the management fee payable to TICC Management will be payable on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, TICC Management may have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders’ interests. In addition, our common stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to TICC Management. Illustration. The following table illustrates the effect of leverage on returns from an investment in our common stock assuming various annual returns on the portfolio, net of expenses. The calculations in the table below are hypothetical and actual returns may be higher or lower than those appearing in the table below. Assumed total return on our portfolio(net of expenses) (10.0 )% (5.0 )% 0.0 % 5.0 % 10.0 % Corresponding return to stockholder(1) (14.3 )% (7.7 )% (1.0 )% 5.7 % 12.3 % (1) Assumes $404.8 million in total assets and $101.25 million in total debt outstanding, which reflects our total assets and total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011, and a cost of funds of 3.0%. Excludes non-portfolio investment assets and non-leverage related liabilities. We are subject to risks associated with the debt securitization financing transaction that we completed on August 10, 2011. As a result of the debt securitization financing transaction that we completed on August 10, 2011, we are subject to a variety of risks, including those set forth below: We are subject to certain risks as a result of our indirect interests in the subordinated notes and membership interests of the Securitization Issuer. Under the terms of the master loan sale agreement governing the debt securitization financing transaction, (1) we sold and/or contributed to Holdings all of our ownership interest in our portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and other consideration set forth in the master loan sale agreement and (2) Holdings, in turn, sold and/or contributed to the Securitization Issuer all of its ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations for the purchase price and the consideration set forth in the master loan sale agreement. Following these transfers, the Securitization Issuer, and not Holdings or us, held all of the ownership interest in such portfolio loans and participations. As a result of the debt securitization financing transaction, we hold indirectly through Holdings Subordinated Notes as well as membership interests, which comprise 100% of the equity interests, in the Securitization Issuer. As a result, we consolidate the financial statements of Holdings and the Securitization Issuer in our consolidated 23 Table of Contents financial statements. Because each of Holdings and the Securitization Issuer is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the sale or contribution by us to Holdings, and by Holdings to the Securitization Issuer, did not constitute a taxable event for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service were to take a contrary position, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The securities issued by the Securitization Issuer, or by any securitization vehicle we sponsor in the future, could be acquired by another business development company or securitization vehicle subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We may also, from time to time, hold asset-backed securities, or the economic equivalent thereof, issued by a securitization vehicle sponsored by another business development company to the extent permitted under the 1940 Act. The Subordinated Notes and membership interests in the Securitization Issuer are subordinated obligations of the Securitization Issuer. The Subordinated Notes are the junior class of notes issued by the Securitization Issuer, are subordinated in priority of payment to the Class A Notes issued by the Securitization Issuer and are subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the indenture governing the notes. Therefore, Holdings only receives cash distributions on the Subordinated Notes if the Securitization Issuer has made all cash interest payments on the Class A Notes it has issued, and we only receive cash distributions in respect of our indirect ownership of the Securitization Issuer to the extent that Holdings receives any cash distributions in respect of its direct ownership of the Securitization Issuer. The Subordinated Notes are also unsecured and rank behind all of the secured creditors, known or unknown, of the Securitization Issuer, including the holders of the Class A Notes it has issued. Consequently, to the extent that the value of the Securitization Issuer’s portfolio of loan investments has been reduced as a result of conditions in the credit markets, or as a result of defaulted loans or individual fund assets, the value of the Subordinated Notes at their redemption could be reduced. Accordingly, our investment in the Securitization Issuer may be subject to complete loss. The membership interests in the Securitization Issuer represent all of the equity interest in the Securitization Issuer. As such, the holder of the membership interests is the residual claimant on distributions, if any, made by the Securitization Issuer after holders of all classes of notes issued by the Securitization Issuer have been paid in full on each payment date or upon maturity of such notes under the debt securitization financing transaction documents. Such payments may be made by the Securitization Issuer only to the extent permitted under such documents on any payment date or upon payment in full of the notes issued by the Securitization Issuer. We cannot assure you that distributions on the assets held by the Securitization Issuer will be sufficient to make any distributions to us or that such distributions will meet our expectations. The interests of holders of the senior class of securities issued by the Securitization Issuer may not be aligned with our interests. The Class A Notes are the debt obligations ranking senior in right of payment to the Subordinated Notes. As such, there are circumstances in which the interests of holders of the Class A Notes may not be aligned with the interests of holders of the Subordinated Notes and the membership interests of the Securitization Issuer. For example, under the terms of the Class A Notes, holders of the Class A Notes have the right to receive payments of principal and interest prior to holders of the Subordinated Notes and the membership interests. For as long as the Class A Notes remain outstanding, holders of the Class A Notes have the right to act, in certain circumstances, with respect to the portfolio loans in ways that may benefit their interests but not the interests of holders of Subordinated Notes and membership interests, including by exercising remedies under the indenture in the debt securitization financing transaction. If an event of default has occurred and acceleration occurs in accordance with the terms of the indenture, the Class A Notes then outstanding will be paid in full before any further payment or distribution on the Subordinated Notes. In addition, if an event of default occurs, holders of a majority of the Class A Notes will be entitled to determine the remedies to be exercised under the indenture, subject to the terms of the indenture. For example, upon the occurrence of an event of default with respect to the notes issued by the Securitization Issuer, the trustee or holders of a majority of the Class A Notes may declare the principal, together with any accrued interest, of all the notes of such class and any junior classes to be immediately due and payable. This would have the effect of accelerating the principal on such notes, triggering a repayment obligation on the part of the Securitization Issuer. If at such time the portfolio loans were not performing well, the Securitization Issuer may not have sufficient proceeds available to enable the trustee under the indenture to repay the obligations of holders of the Subordinated Notes, or to pay a dividend to holders of the membership interests. Remedies pursued by the holders of Class A Notes could be adverse to the interests of the holders of the Subordinated Notes, and the holders of Class A Notes will have no obligation to consider any possible adverse effect on such other interests. Thus, any remedies pursued by the holders of Class A Notes may not be in the best interests of Holdings and that Holdings may not receive payments or distributions upon an acceleration of the Subordinated Notes. Any failure of the Securitization Issuer to make distributions on the notes we indirectly hold, whether as a result of an event of default or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and may result in an inability of us to make distributions sufficient to allow our qualification as a RIC. 24 Table of Contents The Securitization Issuer may fail to meet certain asset coverage tests. Under the documents governing the debt securitization financing transaction, there are two asset coverage tests applicable to the Class A Notes. The first such test compares the amount of interest received on the portfolio loans held by the Securitization Issuer to the amount of interest payable in respect of the Class A Notes, interest received on the portfolio loans must equal at least 200% or greater (based upon a graduated scale provided for in the indenture) of the interest payable in respect of the Class A Notes. The second such test compares the principal amount of the portfolio loans to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes. To meet this test at any time, the aggregate principal amount of the portfolio loans must equal at least 135% of the outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes. If either coverage test is not satisfied, interest and principal received by the Securitization Issuer are diverted on the following payment date to pay the Class A Notes in full to the extent necessary to cause all coverage tests to be satisfied on a pro forma basis after giving effect to all payments made in respect of the notes, which we refer to as a mandatory redemption. If any asset coverage test with respect to the Class A Notes is not met or if the Securitization Issuer fails to obtain a confirmation of the initial ratings of the Class A Notes after the effective date (defined under the indenture as the earlier to occur of April 3, 2012 or the time that the Securitization Issuer has acquired (or committed to acquire) at least $224.1 million in assets), proceeds from the portfolio of loan investments that otherwise would have been distributed to the Securitization Issuer and the holders of the Subordinated Notes will instead be used to redeem first the Class A Notes, to the extent necessary to satisfy the applicable asset coverage tests or to obtain the necessary ratings confirmation. We may not receive cash on our equity interests in the Securitization Issuer. We receive cash from the Securitization Issuer only to the extent that Holdings receives payments on the Subordinated Notes or membership interests. The Securitization Issuer may only make payments on such securities to the extent permitted by the payment priority provisions of the indenture governing the notes, which generally provides that principal payments on the Subordinated Notes may not be made on any payment date unless all amounts owing under the Class A Notes are paid in full. In addition, if the Securitization Issuer does not meet the asset coverage tests or the interest coverage test set forth in the documents governing the debt securitization financing transaction, cash would be diverted from the Subordinated Notes to first pay the Class A Notes in amounts sufficient to cause such tests to be satisfied. In the event that we fail to indirectly receive cash from the Securitization Issuer, we could be unable to make such distributions in amounts sufficient to maintain our status as a RIC, or at all. We also could be forced to sell investments in portfolio companies at less than their fair value in order to continue making such distributions. However, the indenture places significant restrictions on the Securitization Issuer’s ability to sell investments. As a result, there may be times or circumstances during which the Securitization Issuer is unable to sell investments or take other actions that might be in our best interests. We may be required to assume liabilities of the Securitization Issuer. As part of the debt securitization financing transaction, we entered into a master loan sale agreement under which we would be required to repurchase any loan (or participation interest therein) which was sold to the Securitization Issuer in breach of any representation or warranty made by us with respect to such loan on the date such loan was sold. To the extent we fail to satisfy any such repurchase obligation, the trustee may, on behalf of the Securitization Issuer, bring an action against us to enforce these repurchase obligations. The structure of the debt securitization financing transaction is intended to prevent, in the event of our bankruptcy or the bankruptcy of Holdings, the consolidation of the Securitization Issuer with our operations or those of Holdings. If the true sale of these assets were not respected in the event of our insolvency, a trustee or debtor-in-possession might reclaim the assets of the Securitization Issuer for our estate. However, in doing so, we would become directly liable for all of the indebtedness then outstanding under the debt securitization financing transaction, which would equal the full amount of debt of the Securitization Issuer reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, we cannot assure that the recovery in the event we were consolidated with the Securitization Issuer for purposes of any bankruptcy proceeding would exceed the amount to which we would otherwise be entitled as an indirect holder of the Subordinated Notes had we not been consolidated with the Securitization Issuer. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we raise additional capital, which may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. Our ability to grow our business requires a substantial amount of capital, which we may acquire from the following sources: Senior Securities and Other Indebtedness We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we 25 Table of Contents are permitted, as a business development company, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. This requirement of sustaining a 200% asset coverage ratio limits the amount that we may borrow. Because we will continue to need capital to grow our loan and investment portfolio, this limitation may prevent us from incurring debt. Further additional debt financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or may be restricted by the terms of our debt facilities. If we are unable to incur additional debt, we may be required to raise additional equity at a time when it may be disadvantageous to do so. As a result of the issuance of senior securities, including preferred stock and debt securities, we are exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss and an increase in expenses, which are ultimately borne by our common stockholders. Because we may incur leverage to make investments, a decrease in the value of our investments would have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock. When we issue debt securities or preferred stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. In addition, such securities may be rated by rating agencies, and in obtaining a rating for such securities, we may be required to abide by operating and investment guidelines that could further restrict our operating flexibility. On August 10, 2011, we completed a $225,000,000 debt securitization financing transaction. The notes were issued by a newly formed special purpose vehicle in which our wholly-owned subsidiary owns all of the equity. The notes have an initial face amount of $101,250,000, are rated AAA/Aaa by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively, and bear interest, after the effective date, at three-month LIBOR plus 2.25% (prior to the effective date, the Class A Notes bear interest at five-month LIBOR plus 2.25%). The notes have a stated maturity date of July 25, 2021 and are subject to a three year non-call period. TICC CLO has a three year reinvestment period. Our ability to pay dividends or issue additional senior securities would be restricted if our asset coverage ratio was not at least 200%. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Furthermore, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Common Stock We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of TICC and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In certain limited circumstances, pursuant to an SEC staff interpretation, we may also issue shares at a price below net asset value in connection with a transferable rights offering so long as: (1) the offer does not discriminate among stockholders; (2) we use our best efforts to ensure an adequate trading market exists for the rights; and (3) the ratio of the offering does not exceed one new share for each three rights held. If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease and they may experience dilution. Moreover, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to issue and sell additional equity securities in the future, on favorable terms or at all. Our Board of Directors is authorized to reclassify any unissued shares of common stock into one or more classes of preferred stock, which could convey special rights and privileges to its owners. Our charter permits our Board of Directors to reclassify any authorized but unissued shares of stock into one or more classes of preferred stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 32,818,428 shares are issued and outstanding as of March 13, 2012. In the event our Board of Directors opts to reclassify a portion of our unissued shares of common stock into a class of preferred stock, those preferred shares would have a preference over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. The cost of any such reclassification would be borne by our existing common stockholders. The class voting rights of any preferred shares we may issue could make it more difficult for us to take some actions that may, in the future, be proposed by our Board of Directors and/or the holders of our common stock, such as a merger, exchange of securities, liquidation, or alteration of the rights of a class of our securities, if these actions were perceived by the holders of preferred shares as not in their best interests. The issuance of preferred shares convertible into shares of common stock might also reduce the net income and net asset value per share of our common stock upon conversion. These effects, among others, could have an adverse effect on your investment in our common stock. 26 Table of Contents A change in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. On August 10, 2011, we completed a $225,000,000 debt securitization financing transaction. The notes were issued by a newly formed special purpose vehicle in which our wholly-owned subsidiary owns all of the equity. The notes have an initial face amount of $101,250,000, are rated AAA/Aaa by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., respectively, and bear interest, after the effective date, at three-month LIBOR plus 2.25% (prior to the effective date, the Class A Notes bear interest at five-month LIBOR plus 2.25%). As a result, a portion of our income will depend upon the difference between LIBOR and the interest rate on the debt securities in which we invest. Currently, only three of the debt investments in our investment portfolio are at a fixed rate, while the others are at variable rates. Although we have not done so in the past, we may in the future choose to hedge against interest rate fluctuations by using standard hedging instruments such as futures, options and forward contracts, subject to applicable legal requirements. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to purchase or develop such expertise if we choose to employ hedging strategies in the future. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC for federal income tax purposes. To remain entitled to the tax benefits accorded to RICs under the Code, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. In order to qualify as a RIC, we must derive each taxable year at least 90% of our gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities, or other income derived with respect to our business of investing in such stock or securities. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the annual distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for special tax treatment as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax on all of our income. In addition, we have purchased and may in the future purchase residual or subordinated interests in CLOs that are treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as shares in a PFIC. We may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our allocable share of a portion of any “excess distribution” received on, or any gain from the disposition of, such shares even if our allocable share of such income is distributed as a taxable dividend to the PFIC’s stockholders. Additional charges, in the nature of interest, generally will be imposed on us in respect of deferred taxes arising from any such excess distribution or gain. If we elect to treat a PFIC as a QEF under the Code, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, we will be required to include in income each year our proportionate share of the ordinary earnings and net capital gain of the QEF, even if such income is not distributed by the QEF. Alternatively, we may elect mark-to-market treatment for a PFIC; in this case, we will recognize as ordinary income our allocable share of any increase in the value of such shares, and as ordinary loss our allocable share of any decrease in such value to the extent that any such decrease does not exceed prior increases included in our income. Under either election, we may be required to recognize in a year income in excess of distributions from PFICs and proceeds from dispositions of PFIC shares during that year, and such income will nevertheless be subject to the annual distribution requirement described above. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may choose to pay dividends in our own common stock, in which case our stockholders may be required to pay federal income taxes in excess of the cash dividends they receive. We may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash or shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. IRS Revenue Procedure 2010-12 temporarily allows a RIC whose stock is publicly traded on an established securities market in the U.S. to distribute its own stock as a dividend for the purpose of fulfilling its distribution requirements. Pursuant to this revenue procedure, a RIC may treat a distribution of its own stock as fulfilling its distribution requirements if (i) the distribution is declared on or before December 31, 2012, with respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31, 2011, and (ii) each stockholder may elect to receive his or her entire distribution in either cash or stock of the RIC subject to a limitation on the aggregate amount of cash to be distributed to all stockholders, which limitation must be at least 10% of the aggregate declared distribution. Under Revenue 27 Table of Contents Procedure 2010-12, if too many stockholders elect to receive cash, each stockholder electing to receive cash will receive a pro rata amount of cash (with the balance of the distribution paid in stock). In no event will any stockholder, electing to receive cash, receive less than 10% of his or her entire distribution in cash. If the requirements of Revenue Procedure 2010-12 are met, for U.S federal income tax purposes, the amount of the dividend paid in stock will be equal to the amount of cash that could have been received instead of stock. Where Revenue Procedure 2010-12 is not currently applicable, the IRS has also issued private letter rulings on cash/stock dividends paid by RICs and real estate investment trusts using a 20% cash standard (and, more recently, the 10% cash standard of Revenue Procedure 2010-12) if certain requirements are satisfied. Stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend (including the portion payable in stock) as ordinary income (or, in certain circumstances, long-term capital gain) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the common stock that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. It is unclear whether and to what extent we will be able to pay taxable dividends of the type described in this paragraph (whether pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2010-12, a private letter ruling or otherwise). We have no current intention to make a taxable dividend payable in our stock. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we will include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted PIK interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. In addition, we may be required to accrue for federal income tax purposes amounts attributable to our investment in CLOs that may differ from the distributions received in respect of such investments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash. Because in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement applicable to RICs. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, reduce new investments or make taxable distributions of our stock or debt securities to meet that distribution requirement. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. In addition, original issue discount income for certain portfolio investments may or may not be included as a factor in the determination of the fair value of such investments. There are significant potential conflicts of interest between TICC and our management team. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to TICC Management, and reimburse BDC Partners for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in our common stock invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of TICC Management has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. TICC Management receives a quarterly incentive fee based, in part, on our “Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income,” if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This incentive fee is subject to a quarterly hurdle rate before providing an incentive fee return to TICC Management. To the extent we or TICC Management are able to exert influence over our portfolio companies, the quarterly pre-incentive fee may provide TICC Management with an incentive to induce our portfolio companies to accelerate or defer interest or other obligations owed to us from one calendar quarter to another. In addition, our executive officers and directors, and the executive officers of TICC Management, and its managing member, BDC Partners, serve or may serve as officers and directors of entities that operate in a line of business similar to our own. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. Charles M. Royce, the non-executive Chairman of our Board of Directors, holds a minority, non-controlling interest in our investment adviser. BDC Partners is the managing member of Oxford Gate Capital, LLC, a private fund in which Messrs. Cohen, Rosenthal and Conroy, along with certain investment and administrative personnel of TICC Management, are invested. 28 Table of Contents Messrs. Cohen and Rosenthal also currently serve as Chief Executive Officer and President, respectively, for T2 Advisers, LLC, the investment adviser to Greenwich Loan Income Fund Limited (f/k/a T2 Income Fund Limited) (“GLIF”), a Guernsey fund investing in syndicated loans across a variety of industries globally. BDC Partners is the managing member of T2 Advisers, LLC. Further, Messrs. Cohen and Rosenthal currently serve as Chief Executive Officer and President, respectively, of Oxford Lane Capital Corp., a non-diversified closed-end management investment company that currently invests primarily in CLO debt and equity tranches, and its investment adviser, Oxford Lane Management. BDC Partners provides Oxford Lane Capital Corp. with office facilities and administrative services pursuant to an administration agreement and also serves as the managing member of Oxford Lane Management. In addition, Patrick F. Conroy, the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary of TICC Management, BDC Partners and TICC, serves in the same capacities for Oxford Lane Capital Corp. and Oxford Lane Management and also serves as the Chief Financial Officer of GLIF and as the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Treasurer of T2 Advisers, LLC. Because of these possible conflicts of interest, these individuals may direct potential business and investment opportunities to other entities rather than to us or such individuals may undertake or otherwise engage in activities or conduct on behalf of such other entities that is not in, or which may be adverse to, our best interests. BDC Partners has adopted a written policy with respect to the allocation of investment opportunities among TICC, Oxford Lane Capital Corp., Greenwich Loan Income Fund Limited and Oxford Gate Capital, LLC in view of the potential conflicts of interest raised by the relationships described above. In the ordinary course of business, we may enter into transactions with portfolio companies that may be considered related party transactions. In order to ensure that we do not engage in any prohibited transactions with any persons affiliated with us, we have implemented certain policies and procedures whereby our executive officers screen each of our transactions for any possible affiliations between the proposed portfolio investment, us, companies controlled by us and our employees and directors. We will not enter into any agreements unless and until we are satisfied that doing so will not raise concerns under the 1940 Act or, if such concerns exist, we have taken appropriate actions to seek board review and approval or exemptive relief for such transaction. Our Board of Directors reviews these procedures on an annual basis. We have also adopted a Code of Ethics which applies to, among others, our senior officers, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as well as all of our officers, directors and employees. Our Code of Ethics requires that all employees and directors avoid any conflict, or the appearance of a conflict, between an individual’s personal interests and our interests. Pursuant to our Code of Ethics, each employee and director must disclose any conflicts of interest, or actions or relationships that might give rise to a conflict, to our Chief Compliance Officer. Our Audit Committee is charged with approving any waivers under our Code of Ethics. As required by the NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance listing standards, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors is also required to review and approve any transactions with related parties (as such term is defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K). Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Any change in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, legislative initiatives relating to climate change, healthcare reform and similar public policy matters may impact the portfolio companies in which we invest to the extent they operate in industries that may be subject to such changes. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could fail to qualify as a business development company or be precluded from investing according to our current business strategy. As a business development company, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See “Business — Regulation as a Business Development Company.” We believe that most of our portfolio investments will constitute qualifying assets. However, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we do not invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies (which could result in the dilution of our position) or could require us to dispose of investments at inappropriate times in order to comply with the 1940 Act. If we need to dispose of such investments quickly, it would be difficult to dispose of such investments on favorable terms. For example, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer and, even if we do find a buyer, we may have to sell the investments at a substantial loss. 29 Table of Contents Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and of our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the market price for our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS Our investment portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies defaults on its obligations under any of its debt securities that we hold or if the sectors in which we invest experience a market downturn. A consequence of our limited number of investments is that the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Beyond our income tax asset diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few issuers. On December 3, 2007, we changed our name from Technology Investment Capital Corp. to TICC Capital Corp. While we have historically focused on the technology sector, we expect to actively seek new investment opportunities outside this sector that otherwise meet our investment criteria. As a result, a market downturn, including a downturn in the sectors in which we invest, could materially adversely affect us. Most of our debt investments will not fully amortize during their lifetime, which may subject us to the risk of loss of our principal in the event a portfolio company is unable to repay us prior to maturity. Most of our debt investments are not structured to fully amortize during their lifetime. Accordingly, if a portfolio company has not previously pre-paid its debt investment to us, a significant portion of the principal amount due on such a debt investment may be due at maturity. In order to create liquidity to pay the final principal payment, a portfolio company typically must raise additional capital. If they are unable to raise sufficient funds to repay us, the debt investment may go into default, which may compel us to foreclose on the borrower’s assets, even if the debt investment was otherwise performing prior to maturity. This may deprive us from immediately obtaining full recovery on the debt investment and may prevent or delay the reinvestment of the investment proceeds in other, possibly more profitable investments. The sectors in which we invest are subject to many risks, including volatility, intense competition, decreasing life cycles and periodic downturns which could result in a heightened risk of loss on your investment. We invest in companies which may have relatively short operating histories. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of these companies can and often do fluctuate suddenly and dramatically. Also, the technology-related sector, on which we have historically focused, in particular, is generally characterized by abrupt business cycles and intense competition. The recent cyclical economic downturn has resulted in substantial decreases in the market capitalization of many companies. While such valuations have recovered to some extent, we can offer no assurance that such decreases in market capitalizations will not recur, or that any future decreases in valuations will be insubstantial or temporary in nature. Therefore, our portfolio companies may face considerably more risk of loss than companies in other industry sectors. In addition, because of rapid technological change, the average selling prices of products and some services provided by the technology-related sector, on which we have historically focused, have historically decreased over their productive lives. As a result, the average selling prices of products and services offered by some of our portfolio companies may decrease over time, which could adversely affect their operating results and their ability to meet their obligations under their debt securities, as well as the value of any equity securities, that we may hold. This could, in turn, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our investments in the companies that we target may be extremely risky and we could lose all or part of our investments. Although a prospective portfolio company’s assets are one component of our analysis when determining whether to provide debt capital, we generally do not base an investment decision primarily on the liquidation value of a company’s balance sheet assets. Instead, given the nature of the companies that we invest in, we also review the company’s historical and projected cash flows, equity capital and “soft” assets, including intellectual property (patented and non-patented), databases, business relationships (both 30 Table of Contents contractual and non-contractual) and the like. Accordingly, considerably higher levels of overall risk will likely be associated with our portfolio compared with that of a traditional asset-based lender whose security consists primarily of receivables, inventories, equipment and other tangible assets. Interest rates payable by our portfolio companies may not compensate for these additional risks, any of which could cause us to lose part or all of our investment. Specifically, investment in certain of the companies that we are invested in involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any value from the liquidation of such collateral; • they may have limited operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which may tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • because many of them tend to be privately owned, there is generally little publicly available information about these businesses; therefore, although TICC Management’s agents will perform “due diligence” investigations on these portfolio companies, their operations and their prospects, we may not learn all of the material information we need to know regarding these businesses; • some of these companies are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • some of these companies may have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and • many of these companies may be more susceptible to economic recessions or downturns than other better capitalized companies that operate in less capital intensive industries. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if a portfolio company goes bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided significant “managerial assistance” to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies could impair the value of our investment portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: (i) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (ii) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (iii) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, because we prefer other opportunities, or because we are inhibited by compliance with business development company requirements or the desire to maintain our tax status. Our incentive fee may induce TICC Management to use leverage and to make speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to TICC Management may create an incentive for TICC Management to use leverage and to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee on “Pre-Incentive Fee Net Investment Income” is determined, which is calculated as a percentage of the return on invested capital, may encourage TICC Management to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Similarly, because TICC Management may also receive an incentive fee based, in part, upon the capital gains 31 Table of Contents realized on our investments, the investment adviser may invest more than would otherwise be appropriate in companies whose securities are likely to yield capital gains, as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during an economic downturn. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We intend to invest primarily in senior debt securities, but may also invest in subordinated debt securities, issued by our portfolio companies. In some cases, portfolio companies will be permitted to have other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders thereof are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the debt securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligations to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. In addition, we will not be in a position to control any portfolio company by investing in its debt securities. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such companies, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not best serve our interests as debt investors. Because we generally do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by the managements of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. Although we have taken and may in the future take controlling equity positions in our portfolio companies from time to time, we generally do not do so. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree, and the stockholders and management of a portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity for the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company, and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. Our investments in CLO vehicles may be riskier and less transparent than direct investments in portfolio companies. From time to time we have and may in the future invest in debt and residual value interests of CLO vehicles. Generally, there may be less information available to us regarding the underlying debt investments held by such CLOs than if we had invested directly in the underlying companies. Our CLO investments will also be subject to the risk of leverage associated with the debt issued by such CLOs and the repayment priority of debt holders senior to us in such CLOs. Some instruments issued by CLO vehicles may not be readily marketable and may be subject to restrictions on resale. Securities issued by CLO vehicles are generally not listed on any U.S. national securities exchange and no active trading market may exist for the securities of CLO vehicles in which we may invest. Although a secondary market may exist for our investments in CLO vehicles, the market for our investments in CLO vehicles may be subject to irregular trading activity, wide bid/ask spreads and extended trade settlement periods. As a result, these types of investments may be more difficult to value. Failure by a CLO vehicle in which we are invested to satisfy certain tests will harm our operating results. The failure by a CLO vehicle in which we invest to satisfy financial covenants, including with respect to adequate collateralization and/or interest coverage tests, could lead to a reduction in its payments to us. In the event that a CLO vehicle fails certain tests, holders of debt senior to us may be entitled to additional payments that would, in turn, reduce the payments we would otherwise be entitled to receive. Separately, we may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, with a defaulting CLO vehicle or any other investment we may make. If any of these occur, it could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our financial results may be affected adversely if one or more of our significant equity or junior debt investments in a CLO vehicle defaults on its payment obligations or fails to perform as we expect or if the market price fluctuates significantly in such illiquid investments. 32 Table of Contents Up to 30% of our portfolio may consist of equity and junior debt investments in CLO vehicles, which involves a number of significant risks. CLO vehicles that we invest in are typically very highly levered (10-14 times), and therefore, the junior debt and equity tranches that we invest in are subject to a higher degree of risk of total loss. In particular, investors in CLO vehicles indirectly bear risks of the underlying debt investments held by such CLO vehicles. We will generally have the right to receive payments only from the CLO vehicles, and will generally not have direct rights against the underlying borrowers or the entity that sponsored the CLO vehicle. While the CLO vehicles we have and continue to target generally enable the investor to acquire interests in a pool of leveraged corporate loans without the expenses associated with directly holding the same investments, when we invest in an equity tranche of a CLO vehicle we will generally pay a proportionate share of the CLO vehicles’ administrative and other expenses. Although it is difficult to predict whether the prices of indices and securities underlying CLO vehicles will rise or fall, these prices (and, therefore, the prices of the CLO vehicles) will be influenced by the same types of political and economic events that affect issuers of securities and capital markets generally. The interests we intend to acquire in CLO vehicles will likely be thinly traded or have only a limited trading market. CLO vehicles are typically privately offered and sold, even in the secondary market. As a result, investments in CLO vehicles may be characterized as illiquid securities. In addition to the general risks associated with investing in debt securities, CLO vehicles carry additional risks, including, but not limited to: (i) the possibility that distributions from collateral securities will not be adequate to make interest or other payments; (ii) the quality of the collateral may decline in value or default; (iii) the fact that our investments in CLO tranches will likely be subordinate to other senior classes of note tranches thereof; and (iv) the complex structure of the security may not be fully understood at the time of investment and may produce disputes with the CLO vehicle or unexpected investment results. Investments in structured vehicles, including equity and junior debt instruments issued by CLO vehicles, involve risks, including credit risk and market risk. Changes in interest rates and credit quality may cause significant price fluctuations. Additionally, changes in the underlying leveraged corporate loans held by a CLO vehicle may cause payments on the instruments we hold to be reduced, either temporarily or permanently. Structured investments, particularly the subordinated interests in which we intend to invest, are less liquid than many other types of securities and may be more volatile than the leveraged corporate loans underlying the CLO vehicles we intend to target. Fluctuations in interest rates may also cause payments on the tranches of CLO vehicles that we hold to be reduced, either temporarily or permanently. Investments in foreign securities may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. Our investment strategy involves investments in securities issued by foreign entities, including foreign CLO vehicles. Investing in foreign entities may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. issues. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the U.S., higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Further, we, and the CLO vehicles in which we invest, may have difficulty enforcing creditor’s rights in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, the underlying companies of the CLO vehicles in which we invest may be foreign, which may create greater exposure for us to foreign economic developments. Although we expect that most of our investments will be U.S. dollar-denominated, any investments denominated in a foreign currency will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but we can offer no assurance that we will, in fact, hedge currency risk, or that if we do, such strategies will be effective. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock price may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of regulated investment companies, business development companies or other financial services companies; 33 Table of Contents • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to regulated investment companies or business development companies; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; • general economic conditions and trends; • loss of a major funding source; or • departures of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may therefore be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Our shares of common stock have traded at a discount from net asset value and may do so in the future. Shares of closed-end investment companies have frequently traded at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. In part as a result of adverse economic conditions and increasing pressure within the financial sector of which we are a part, our common stock consistently traded below our net asset value per share throughout 2009 and during some periods in 2010 and 2011. Our common stock could trade at a discount to net asset value at any time in the future. The possibility that our shares of common stock may trade at a discount from net asset value over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. We cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. If our common stock trades below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease our new lending and investment activities, and our net asset value could decrease and our level of distributions could be impacted. You may not receive dividends or our dividends may decline or may not grow over time. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow or require any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In particular, our future dividends are dependent upon the investment income we receive on our portfolio investments. To the extent such investment income declines, our ability to pay future dividends may be harmed. Your interest in us may be diluted if you do not fully exercise your subscription rights in any rights offering. In the event we issue subscription rights to purchase shares of our common stock, stockholders who do not fully exercise their rights should expect that they will, at the completion of the offer, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership because we do not know at this time what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of the offer. In addition, if the subscription price is less than our net asset value per share, then our stockholders would experience an immediate dilution of the aggregate net asset value of their shares as a result of the offer. The amount of any decrease in net asset value is not predictable because it is not known at this time what the subscription price and net asset value per share will be on the expiration date of the rights offering or what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of the offer. Such dilution could be substantial. If we issue preferred stock, the net asset value and market value of our common stock will likely become more volatile. We cannot assure you that the issuance of preferred stock would result in a higher yield or return to the holders of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock would likely cause the net asset value and market value of the common stock to become more volatile. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to approach the net rate of return on our investment portfolio, the benefit of leverage to the holders of the common stock would be reduced. If the dividend rate on the preferred stock were to exceed the net rate of return on our portfolio, the leverage would result in a lower rate of return to the holders of common stock than if we had not issued preferred stock. Any decline in the net asset value of our investments would be borne entirely by the holders of common stock. Therefore, if the market value of our portfolio were to decline, the leverage would result in a greater decrease in net asset value to the holders of common stock than if we were not leveraged through the issuance of preferred stock. This greater net asset value decrease 34 Table of Contents would also tend to cause a greater decline in the market price for the common stock. We might be in danger of failing to maintain the required asset coverage of the preferred stock or of losing our ratings, if any, on the preferred stock or, in an extreme case, our current investment income might not be sufficient to meet the dividend requirements on the preferred stock. In order to counteract such an event, we might need to liquidate investments in order to fund a redemption of some or all of the preferred stock. In addition, we would pay (and the holders of common stock would bear) all costs and expenses relating to the issuance and ongoing maintenance of the preferred stock, including higher advisory fees if our total return exceeds the dividend rate on the preferred stock. Holders of preferred stock may have different interests than holders of common stock and may at times have disproportionate influence over our affairs. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue would have the right to elect members of our Board of Directors and class voting rights on certain matters. Holders of any preferred stock we might issue, voting separately as a single class, would have the right to elect two members of our Board of Directors at all times and in the event dividends become two full years in arrears would have the right to elect a majority of the directors until such arrearage is completely eliminated. In addition, preferred stockholders have class voting rights on certain matters, including changes in fundamental investment restrictions and conversion to open-end status, and accordingly can veto any such changes. Restrictions imposed on the declarations and payment of dividends or other distributions to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, both by the 1940 Act and by requirements imposed by rating agencies, if any, or the terms of our credit facilities, if any, might impair our ability to maintain our qualification as a RIC for federal income tax purposes. While we would intend to redeem our preferred stock to the extent necessary to enable us to distribute our income as required to maintain our qualification as a RIC, there can be no assurance that such actions could be effected in time to meet the tax requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 