Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in this Report before making an investment decision. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to our Business Our financial resources are limited and we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash of $5.1 million. We may be required to raise additional capital to permit us to conduct our business and to achieve our strategic growth opportunities. If we are required to raise additional capital, we cannot ensure that additional funding will be available, or if it is available, that it can be obtained on terms and conditions we will deem acceptable. Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties that may prevent us from raising additional capital or may cause the terms upon which we raise additional capital, if additional capital is available, to be less favorable to us than would otherwise be the case. If we needed to raise additional capital and were unable to do so, we may not be able to continue our business as currently contemplated. If this were to happen our shares could lose all or substantially all of their market value. If we are unable to raise additional capital as needed, we may not be able to grow our company and satisfy our obligations as they become due. We have historically relied on offerings of our equity and borrowings under our debt facility to fund our operations. On January 20, 2011, we completed an underwritten public offering of 4,600,000 shares of our common stock at $4.25 per share, resulting in net proceeds to us of $18.2 million. On August 3, 2011, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Square One Bank, replacing our debt facility with Silicon Valley Bank, which we terminated on July 29, 2011. The Square One Agreement, as amended, provides us with a revolving credit facility of up to $12.0 million. The maturity date of the facility is April 2, 2015. As of December 31, 2013, we had $9.2 million in borrowings outstanding under the facility. On April 10, 2013, we entered into a Convertible Note and Warrant Purchase Agreement pursuant to which we sold $5.0 million in convertible subordinated notes (the “Notes”). The maturity date for the Notes is April 10, 2015. As of December 31, 2013, $5.0 million of the Notes remained outstanding. We may need to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit to fund our operations in the future. The failure to raise capital, or obtain credit when needed, on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Our credit facility with Square 1 Bank imposes restrictions. Failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of such debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. Under the Square One Agreement, as amended, we must meet certain financial covenants during the term of the facility, including (i) maintaining a minimum liquidity ratio of 1.25 to 1.0, which is defined as cash on hand plus the most recently reported borrowing base divided by outstanding bank debt, and (ii) certain Adjusted EBITDA covenants, as more particularly described in the Square One Agreement (such Adjusted EBITDA amounts are for financial covenant purposes only, and do not represent our projections of financial results). As of December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with our covenants with Square One. However, if we are unable to comply with our financial covenants, the lender may declare an event of default under the Square One Agreement, in which event all outstanding borrowings would become immediately due and payable. We do not presently and cannot assure you that we would have sufficient cash on hand to repay such outstanding borrowings if an event of default were declared under the Square One Agreement. The assessment of our liquidity is based upon significant judgments or estimates that could prove to be materially incorrect. In assessing our current financial position and developing operating plans for the future, we have made significant judgments and estimates with respect to the potential financial and liquidity effects of our risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: • our ability to meet our current projections with respect to our results of operations; • our ability to continue to monetize our O&O and Network sites at present levels or better; • our ability to maintain traffic levels to our O&O and Network sites at present levels or better; • our ability to control expenses effectively, including through any fluctuations in our financial performance; • our ability to comply with our debt covenants to Square 1 Bank; and • the potential for additional, unforeseen cash demands, including without limitation traffic acquisition costs, litigation costs, personnel costs, and development costs. In our liquidity assessment, we assumed that our operations will continue without further disruptions through the next twelve months, including disruptions of the sort we recently experienced in the first half of 2011, the second half of 2012, and throughout 2013 in which changes made by our primary search monetization partners, primary traffic acquisition partners, and major search engines that index our content affected the RPC we received for advertisements on our sites, our ability to buy traffic for our sites, and the levels of organic traffic received by our sites. We intend to support operations and repay obligations with one or more of the following: cash on hand; cash from operations; credit line extensions; additional debt; and offerings of our securities. It is possible that the actual outcome of one or more of our plans could be materially different than expected, or that one or more of our significant judgments, or estimates about the potential effects of these risks and uncertainties could prove to be materially incorrect. If one or more of these possible outcomes is realized and third-party financing is not available, substantial doubt could exist about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are not successful with our local search initiative, our future financial performance may be affected. Since August 9, 2005, we have been operating Local.com, a consumer facing destination website specializing in local search and content. Since the third quarter of 2007, we have been operating our local syndication network which provides local search results and local content to our publisher partners. Since the third quarter of 2009, we have been operating a distribution network that provides organic and third party advertising feeds to hundreds of websites. We have and expect to continue to invest significant amounts of time and resources in our Local.com website, local syndication network, our distribution network and other similar initiatives. We cannot assure you that we will continue to sustain or grow our current revenue from these or other local search initiatives. We also cannot assure you that we will sustain or grow the number of consumers or advertisers that use or advertise on Local.com or other network offerings. If we are unable to sustain or grow the number of consumers using and/or advertisers advertising with Local.com, our local syndication and distribution networks, and our other similar initiatives, our financial performance may be adversely affected. We have historically incurred losses and expect to incur losses in the future, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a history of losses. We had a net loss of $10.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. We also had an accumulated deficit of approximately $104 million at December 31, 2013. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable or generate sufficient profits from operations in the future. If our revenue does not grow, we may experience a loss in one or more future periods. We may not be able to reduce or maintain our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenue, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Two of our partners, Google and Yahoo, have historically provided a substantial portion of our revenue and the loss of either Google or Yahoo would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we had two customers that each represented more than 10% of our total revenue. Google and Yahoo represented 26% and 46% of our total revenue, respectively, in 2013. Additionally, our contracts with advertising partners are generally short term in nature. For example, Google’s contract expires in September 2015, whereas Yahoo’s contract expires according to its terms in October 2017, subject in both cases to earlier termination rights under certain circumstances. Upon expiration of these agreements, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed, or if these agreements are renewed, that we would receive the same or better economic benefits as we do under the current agreement, or involve the same amount of use of our paid-search services as currently used, or contain the same rights as they currently do, in which case our business and financial results may be harmed. Additionally, there can be no assurance that if we enter into an arrangement with alternative advertising partners, the terms would be as favorable as those under the current Google or Yahoo agreements. Even if we were to enter into an arrangement with alternative advertising partners with terms as or more favorable than those under the current agreements with Google and Yahoo, such arrangements might generate significantly lower search advertising revenues for us if the alternative advertising partners are not able to generate advertising revenues as successfully as Google and Yahoo currently generate. Two customers account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable and the failure to collect from these customers would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Two of our customers that do not pay in advance, Yahoo and Google, have and for the foreseeable future will likely continue to account for a significant portion of our accounts receivable. At December 31, 2013, Yahoo and Google represented 60% of our total accounts receivable. Yahoo and Google’s accounts have been, and will likely continue to be, unsecured and any failure to collect on those accounts would harm our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the traffic to our Local.com website is acquired from other search engines, mainly google.com, the loss of the ability to acquire traffic and increases in the amounts paid to acquire such traffic or otherwise generate revenues could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results. We advertise on other search engine websites, primarily google.com, but also yahoo.com and msn/bing.com, among others, by bidding on certain keywords we believe will drive traffic to our Local.com website. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 57% of the traffic on our Local.com website and network partner websites was acquired through SEM campaigns on other search engine websites. During the year ended December 31, 2013, advertising costs to drive consumers to our Local.com website were $35.9 million of which $27.4 million was attributable to Google and $6.1 million was attributable to Yahoo. Any decreases in the breadth or depth of advertising available for display or any increase in our traffic acquisitions costs could materially adversely affect our ability to produce revenue and margin that is comparable to our historical results, in which case our business and financial results may be significantly harmed. In 2013, we experienced ad policy change from our largest monetization partners which negatively impacted the amount of traffic we could acquire and lower revenue as a result. Additionally, we experienced algorithmic changes from a major search engine that affected organic traffic levels across our Network, which caused a negative financial impact to both our revenue and net income results. We are working to adjust to these changes, but there can be no guarantees that our efforts will be successful or reverse the negative impact of these changes. Our advertising partners may unilaterally change how they value our inventory of available advertising placements, which could materially affect our advertising revenue. If we are unable to maintain our anticipated RPC rates, it will have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our advertising partners, such as Google and Yahoo, may unilaterally change how they value our inventory of available advertising placements for any number of reasons, including changes in their services, changes in pricing, algorithms or advertising relationships. We have little control over such decisions. If our advertising partners pay us less for our advertising inventory, our advertising revenue would be materially adversely affected. For example, in the first half of 2011, in connection with Yahoo’s integration of its advertising service with Bing, we experienced a material reduction in the revenue per click that Yahoo paid for clicks on their advertisements on our websites; a reduction which began in 2010. The material reduction in RPC from Yahoo had a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings results for the first half of 2011. Beginning in August 2011, we added Google to our mix of advertising partners, which improved our overall RPC. In August 2012, we began to experience a reduction in RPC from Google which had a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings results for the second half of 2012 and continuing into 2013. 12 Table of Contents We are actively pursuing strategies to mitigate any such changes in RPC we may experience, including through the diversification of our revenue to include non-search related sources and the regular optimization of our SEM campaigns, as well as optimization and deployment of advertiser fees from existing and new partners. These and other strategies are intended to preserve revenue and net income. However, we cannot give assurances that these efforts will be successful. If we are unable to maintain our anticipated RPC rates in the near term, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, as well as our own advertising partners, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services. The online paid-search market and local search market is intensely competitive. Our primary current competitors include Yahoo, Microsoft, Google and online directories, such as Yellowpages.com. Other competitors in the local search market may emerge. For example, Facebook Inc. (“Facebook”) now has a Graph Search tool which allows users to access the interests and opinions of friends regarding local places, movies and interests and which may emerge as a significant competitor to our current offerings. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our local advertising market are network size, revenue sharing agreements, services, convenience, accessibility, customer service, quality of tools, quality of editorial review and reliability and speed of fulfillment of advertising needs and requirements across the Internet infrastructure. Although we currently pursue a strategy that allows us to partner with a broad range of websites and search engines, our current and future partners on which our business is substantially dependent may view us as a threat to their own internal paid-search services. We also compete with other online advertising services as well as traditional offline media such as television, radio and print, for a share of businesses’ total advertising budgets. Nearly all of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, sales, personnel and other resources than we do. Our competitors may secure more favorable revenue sharing agreements with network distributors, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive growth strategies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we do. In addition, the search industry and the online advertising industry has experienced consolidation, including the acquisitions of companies offering paid-search services. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger, more established and well-financed competitors with a greater focus on paid-search services. If these industry trends continue, or if we are unable to compete in the paid-search market, our financial results may suffer. We rely on our advertising partners to provide us access to their advertisers, and if they do not, it could have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on our advertising partners to provide us with advertiser listings so that we can distribute these listings to Local.com and our network partners in order to generate revenue when a consumer click-through or other paid event occurs on our advertising partners’ sponsored listings. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 97 percent of our revenue was derived from our advertising partners. Some of our agreements with our advertising partners, such as Google, are short-term, and, as a result, they may discontinue their relationship with us or negotiate new terms that are less favorable to us, at any time, with little or no notice. Our success depends, in part, on the maintenance and growth of our advertising partners. If we are unable to develop or maintain relationships with these partners, our operating results and financial condition could suffer. Our advertising partners may impose editorial restrictions on how we display the advertiser listings they provide to us, including the content and structure of the web pages on which such advertiser listings appear. If we fail to comply with these restrictions, our advertising partners may cease providing us with access to their advertisers, which would have an adverse impact on our business. If we comply with these restrictions, our ability to maximize the monetization of our web pages could be materially adversely affected, which would have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on our advertising partners to provide us with advertiser listings in order to generate revenue. We must adhere to the restrictions they impose on us with respect to the display of the advertiser listings they provide to us, including restrictions with respect to the content and structure of the web pages on which such advertiser lists appear. This impacts where advertising appears, when it appears, and how much of it appears, among other things. Since advertising is the primary source of revenue on our web pages, the restrictions imposed by our partners can impact our revenue opportunities materially. If we fail to adhere to such restrictions, our advertising partners may cease providing us with access to their advertisers, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, if we adhere to such restrictions, our ability to maximize the monetization of our web pages could be adversely affected, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We are dependent on network partners to provide us with local search traffic and access to local advertisers, and if they do not, our business could be harmed. We have contracts with our network partners to provide us with either local search traffic or access to local advertisers. Our network partners are very important to our revenue and results of operations. Any adverse change in our relationships with key network partners could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. In many cases, our agreements with these network partners are short-term and/or subject to many variables which enable us or our network partners to discontinue our relationship or negotiate new terms that are less favorable to us with little or no notice. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our current network partners or develop relationships with prospective network partners on terms that are acceptable to us, our operating results and financial condition could suffer. Any decline in the number and/or quality of our network partners could adversely affect the value of our services. If we do not deliver quality traffic that delivers value for advertisers, then our advertisers and our advertising partners may pay us less for their listing or discontinue listings with us altogether. For our services to be successful, we need to deliver consumers to advertisers’ websites that are valuable to such advertisers. If we do not meet advertisers’ expectations by delivering quality traffic, then our advertising partners may pay us less per click or cease doing business with us altogether, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. We compete with other web search services, online publishers and high-traffic websites, as well as traditional media such as television, radio and print, for a share of our advertisers’ total advertising expenditures. Many potential advertisers and advertising agencies have only limited experience advertising on the Internet and have not devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures to paid-search. Acceptance of our advertising offerings among our advertisers and advertising partners will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the continued growth of commercial usage of the Internet. If we experience downward pricing pressure for our services in the future, our financial results may suffer. More people are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet and accessing new platforms to make search queries. If we are not successful in developing solutions that generate revenue from our mobile website and other mobile offerings, or those solutions are not widely adopted, our results of operations and business could be materially adversely affected. The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, and handheld computers such as netbooks and tablets, is increasing dramatically. The lower resolution, functionality, and memory associated with some alternative devices make the use and accessibility of our services through such devices more difficult and the versions of our services developed for these devices may not be compelling to consumers, advertisers or retailers. In addition, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via “apps” tailored to particular devices or social media platforms, which could affect our share of the search market over time. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our services and developing competitive new services. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of our services across multiple platforms. If we are unable to develop services that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, we will fail to capture the opportunities available as consumers and advertisers transition to a dynamic, multi-screen environment. At the same time, it is important that any services that we develop do not adversely affect our users’ experience, even if they might result in increased short-term monetization. We have limited experience with mobile advertising. If we fail to develop effective advertising solutions, if our solutions alienate our user base, or if our solutions are not widely adopted or are insufficiently profitable, our business may suffer. Additionally, as alternative devices and platforms are released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing services for these alternative devices and platforms, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such products. If we cannot continue to develop and offer effective advertising products and services, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. We believe that growth in our advertising revenues depends on our ability to continue offering our advertisers and publishers with effective products and services. Developing new and improving upon our existing products and services may require significant effort and expense. If we are unable to develop and improve our advertising products and services, including those that more effectively or efficiently plan, price or target advertising, our advertising revenues could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If we do not continue to develop and offer compelling content, products and services, our ability to attract new consumers or maintain the engagement of our existing consumers could be adversely affected. We believe we must offer compelling content, products and services in order to attract new consumers and maintain the engagement of our existing consumers. Our ability to acquire, develop and offer new content, products and services, as well as new features, functionality and enhanced performance for our existing content, services and products requires substantial costs and efforts. The consumer reception of any new offerings we may make is unknown and subject to consumer sentiment that is difficult to predict. If we are unable to provide content, products, and services that are sufficiently attractive and relevant to consumers, we may not be able to attract new consumers or maintain or increase our existing consumers’ engagement with our Local.com site or our other offerings. Even if we are successful in the development and offering of compelling content, products, features, and services, we may not be able to attract new consumers or maintain or increase our existing consumers’ engagement. From time to time, we may acquire businesses or assets, which may not be successful, may negatively impact our results and which pose risks with respect to integration and performance. In recent years, we have undertaken the acquisition of a number of assets and businesses, including Octane360 in July 2010, iTwango in January 2011, Krillion in April 2011, Rovion in May 2011 and SMG in July 2011. We have subsequently exited each of these businesses, except Krillion. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our operations or that our operation of these acquisitions will be successful. We may enter into additional acquisitions, business combinations or strategic alliances in the future. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired. Any acquisitions or investments we make may not ultimately generate anticipated or any returns. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology, which requires a substantial commitment of resources and management’s attention, may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The acquisition of a company or business is accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation: • the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies; • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company with and into our operations, which are headquartered in Irvine, California; • the failure to retain key personnel at the companies we acquire; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • the impairment of relationships with customers of the acquired company or our own customers and partners as a result of any integration of operations; • the impairment of relationships with employees of our own business as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • inability or difficulty in reconciling potentially conflicting or overlapping contractual rights and duties; • the potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired company, including intellectual property claims made by third parties against the acquired company; and • the failure of an acquired company to perform as planned and to negatively impact our overall financial results. 15 Table of Contents We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection our recent acquisitions, or that we could encounter in future acquisitions which would harm our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes against its post-change income may be limited. We performed a Section 382 study during the fourth quarter of 2010 and determined that the company has more likely than not undergone five ownership changes as described in IRC Section 382. The latest ownership change occurred in December 2004. However, due to the relatively large annual limitations based on the value of the company, the identified ownership changes had no material impact to the amount of net operating loss that can be carried forward to the future years. Any future ownership change may impact our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards in the future year. At December 31, 2013, we had federal and state income tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $74.4 million and $71.6 million, respectively. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will expire through 2031 unless previously utilized. We may incur impairment losses related to goodwill, other intangible assets and other assets which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. As a result of our acquisition of Inspire Infrastructure 2i AB, the purchase of Local.com domain name, the Atlocal asset purchase, the acquisition of PremierGuide, Inc., the acquisitions of Simply Static, LLC (doing business as Octane360) and Krillion, we have recorded substantial goodwill and intangible assets in our consolidated financial statements. We are required to perform impairment reviews of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which are determined to have an indefinite life and are not amortized. Such reviews are performed annually or earlier if indicators of potential impairment exist. Future impairment reviews may result in charges against earnings to write-down the value of intangible assets. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of $6.5 million, which consisted of the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and capitalized software related to the Spreebird business unit. During the three months ended December 31, 2012, we recorded an additional impairment charge of $4.1 million, which consisted of impairment of goodwill related to the Spreebird business unit. With the Company’s decision to sell the assets of its Spreebird business unit in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the Spreebird business was determined to be fully impaired. As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge of approximately $3.1 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2013, which included goodwill of $2.6 million. We may have additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and could cause our stock price to decline. Our business is seasonal and our financial results may vary from period to period. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, including seasonality, many of which are outside of our control. Historically, during the fourth quarter, it is more difficult for us to acquire traffic. During the fourth quarter, other advertisers significantly increase their bid prices to acquire traffic for the holiday season, while we generally keep our bid prices consistent throughout the year. As a result, we typically acquire less traffic to our websites from our SEM efforts during the fourth quarter. Additionally, online consumer traffic is generally lower in the third quarter, the summer months, as consumers are on vacation and spending less time on the Internet. Revenue generally increases during the first quarter, when we expect to benefit from a higher volume of locally-focused traffic and a higher volume of online consumer traffic due to fewer holidays and vacation time. If we are not able to appropriately adjust to seasonal or other factors, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 16 Table of Contents The market for Internet and local search advertising services is in the early stages of development, and if the market for our services decreases it will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Internet marketing and advertising, in general, and paid-search, in particular, are in the early stages of development. Our future revenue and profits are substantially dependent upon the continued widespread acceptance, growth, and use of the Internet and other online services as effective advertising mediums. Many of the largest advertisers have generally relied upon more traditional forms of media advertising and have only limited experience advertising on the Internet. Local search, in particular, is still in an early stage of development and may not be accepted by consumers for many reasons including, among others, that consumers may conclude that local search results are less relevant and reliable than non-paid-search results, and may view paid-search results less favorably than search results generated by non-paid-search engines. If consumers reject our paid-search services, or commercial use of the Internet generally, and the number of click-throughs on our sponsored listings decreases, the commercial utility of our search services could be adversely affected which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The effects of the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results, or financial condition. The recent global economic crisis has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and has impacted levels of consumer spending. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers, such as advertisers, may delay or decrease spending with us or may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously performed services. In addition, if consumer spending continues to decrease, this may result in fewer clicks on our advertisers’ ads displayed on our Local.com website or our network partner websites. The recent global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions may have significant negative effects on our access to credit and our ability to raise capital. The recent global financial crisis which has included, among other things, significant reductions in and heightened credit quality standards for available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period, may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional credit, when needed, on acceptable terms or at all. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our success, and the loss of these officers and key personnel could harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. While we have employment agreements with our key executive officers and certain key personnel, each of these may, however, be terminated with 30 days’ notice by either party. No key man life insurance has been purchased on any of our executive officers. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The failure to attract and retain our officers or the necessary technical, managerial and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business and divert our managerial and other resources. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that third parties will not, in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future services, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others in the process. There can be no guarantee that any of our intellectual property will be adequately safeguarded, or that it will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if we willfully infringe, and, also, could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. 17 Table of Contents Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Any patent litigation could negatively impact our business by diverting resources and management attention away from the operation of our business and adding uncertainty as to the ownership of technology and services that we view as proprietary and essential to our business. In addition, a successful claim of patent infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license for the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to lawsuits for information displayed on our websites and the websites of our advertiser partners, which may affect our business. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their advertisers and for the content of their advertisers’ listings are currently unsettled. It is unclear whether we could be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories relating to the information we publish on our websites or the information that is published across our network of websites and partner websites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by our advertisers. Our potential liability for unlawful activities of our advertisers or for the content of our advertisers’ listings could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources or to discontinue certain service offerings. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of claims and the defense of such claims may divert the attention of our management from our operations. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business. We are no longer able to bill our monthly subscription customers through Local Exchange Carriers (“LECs”) on our monthly subscription customers’ telephone bills which has adversely impact our consolidated results of operations. By the end of 2012 we were no longer able to bill our legacy monthly subscribers through LEC. This change could impact the collectability and or delay the collection of our LEC related receivables in the future. All or a portion of LEC related receivables may not be collectible in the future. During the three months ended December 31, 2012, we recorded a LEC receivable reserve of $1.4 million and during the three months ended December 31, 2013, we recorded an additional charge of $1.7 million to fully reserve our outstanding LEC related receivable. The reserve was due to the cessation of billing for these services by LECs and the expectation that these receivables will be subject to a longer collection cycle, if they are collectable at all. Any inability to collect LEC related receivables could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If our monthly subscription customers file complaints against us or our partners, we could be forced to refund material amounts of monthly subscription revenues and our ability to operate our subscription service could be adversely impacted, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Until January 2013, we had internal and outsourced telesales initiatives that could result in complaints from our monthly subscription customers against us or our third-party partners who dispute that they have agreed to receive and be billed for our monthly subscription services. Monthly subscription customers may also direct their complaints to a state’s attorney general’s office, federal agencies such as the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), their LEC and other authorities. If a complaint is directed to an attorney general, a Federal agency, a LEC or other authorities, then we may be forced to refund the monthly subscription fees that have already been collected for services rendered in unknown amounts regardless of whether or not such complaint is valid. If this were to happen, our financial results could be materially impacted. 18 Table of Contents Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Our success is substantially dependent upon our proprietary technology, which relates to a variety of business and transactional processes associated with our paid-search advertising model, our Keyword DNA technology, our Local Connect search and advertising platform, and our Krillion technology platform. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and technical measures, to protect our proprietary rights. We have been issued twelve patents and have seven patent applications pending related to a variety of business and transactional process associated with paid-search, other cost-per-action advertising models in different environments, and localized shopping data. We cannot assure you that any of the patent applications will be issued as patents, that any issued patents will provide us with adequate protection against competitors with similar technology, that any issued patents will afford us a competitive advantage, that any issued patents will not be challenged by third parties, that any issued patents will not be infringed or designed around by others, or that the patents of others will not have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. We own the trademarks for Local.com, Krillion, Pay Per Connect, Local Promote, Local Connect and Keyword DNA, among others, in the United States and may claim trademark rights in, and apply for trademark registrations in the United States for a number of other marks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure significant protection for these marks. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology or duplicate our services or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business and our operations could be adversely affected. Problems with our computer and communication systems may harm our business. A key element of our strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic across our network infrastructure to and from our advertising partners and local syndication and distribution networks. Accordingly, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our software systems, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain advertising customers, as well as maintain adequate customer service levels. We may experience periodic systems interruptions. Any substantial increase in the volume of traffic on our software systems or network infrastructure will require us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our network infrastructure or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. We are dependent on third-party products, services and technologies; changes to existing products, services and technologies or the advent of new products, services and technologies could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our ability to use and interact with many third-party products, services and technologies, such as browsers, data and search indices, and privacy software. Any changes made by third parties or consumers to the settings, features or functionality of these third-party products, services and technologies or the development of new products, services and technologies that interfere with or disrupt our products, services and technologies could adversely affect our business. For instance, if a major search index were to alter its algorithms in a manner that resulted in our content not being indexed as often or appearing as high in its search results, our consumers might not be able to reach and use our content, products and services and our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, if more consumers were to switch their browsers to higher security settings to restrict the acceptance of cookies from the websites they visit, our ability to effectively use cookies to track consumer behavior in our business could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers and advertising partners, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent or illegitimate clicks on our sponsored listings. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs because the fraudulent clicks will not lead to revenue for the advertisers. As a result, our advertisers and advertising partners may become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which could lead to loss of advertisers, advertising partners and revenue. We rely on third-party technology, server and hardware providers, and a failure of service by any of these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely upon third-party data center providers to host our main servers and expect to continue to do so. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial of service or other attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar 19 Table of Contents misconduct. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at such facilities, or the failure by such facility to provide our required data communications capacity could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our services. Any system failure or network disruption that causes an interruption or delay in service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event that these providers experience any interruption in operations or cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service. In the past, we have experienced short-term outages in the service maintained by one of our current co-location providers. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel. In the event of certain system failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the time to full recovery could be prolonged. Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. We also rely on third-party providers for components of our technology platform, such as hardware and software providers, credit card processors and domain name registrars. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third-party providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We receive, store and process personal information and other user data, including credit card information for certain users. There are numerous federal, state and local laws around the world regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal Information and other user data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. We generally comply with industry standards and are subject to the terms of our privacy policies and privacy-related obligations to third parties (including, in certain instances, voluntary third-party certification bodies such as TRUSTe). It is possible that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or negative publicity and could cause our users and advertisers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, if third parties with whom we work, such as advertisers, vendors or developers, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put our users’ information at risk and could have an adverse effect on our business. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, remediation costs, increased costs for security measures, loss of revenue, damage to our reputation, and potential liability. Our user data and corporate systems and security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data. We must continuously examine and modify our security controls and business policies to adapt to the rise of social networking, the adoption of new devices and technologies enabling users to share data and communicate in new ways, and the increasing focus by our users and regulators on controlling and protecting user data. If we fail to scale and adapt our existing technology architecture to manage the expansion of our offerings our business could be adversely affected. We anticipate expanding our offerings to consumers, advertisers and publishers. Any such expansion will require substantial expenditures to scale or adapt our technology infrastructure. As usage increases and products and services expand, change or become more complex in the future, our complex technology architectures utilized for our consumer offerings and advertising services may not provide satisfactory support. As a result, we may make additional changes to our architectures and systems to deliver our consumer offerings and services to advertisers and publishers, including moving to completely new technology architectures and systems. Such changes may be challenging to implement and manage, may take time to test and deploy, may cause us to incur substantial costs and may cause us to suffer data loss or delays or interruptions in service. These delays or interruptions in service may cause consumers, advertisers and publishers to become dissatisfied with our offerings and could adversely affect our business. 20 Table of Contents Our business is subject to a number of natural and man-made risks, including natural disasters such as fires, floods, and earthquakes and problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disaster and man-made problems, including fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. As an example, if we were to experience a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, it likely would have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage will likely be insufficient to compensate us for all of the losses we incur. Additionally, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential intellectual property or customer data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the Southern California area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide customer service, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that various states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities. Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations may subject us to additional sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, VAT and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the Internet. New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data, and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Federal, state or international laws or regulations applicable to our business could adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of existing federal, state and international laws and regulations in the areas of advertising, content regulation, privacy, consumer protection, defamation, child protection, advertising to and collecting information from children, taxation and billing, among others. These laws can change, as can the interpretation and enforcement of these laws. Additionally, new laws and regulations may be enacted at any time. Compliance with laws is often costly and time consuming and may result in the diversion of a significant portion of management’s attention. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to significant liabilities which could adversely affect our business. Specific federal laws that impact our business include: The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998; The Communications Decency Act of 1996; The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (including related Federal Trade Commission regulations); The Protect Our Children Act of 2008; the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009; and The Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986, and any amendments thereto. Additionally, there are a number of state laws and pending legislation governing the breach of data security in which sensitive consumer information is released or accessed. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations we could be subject to significant liability which could adversely affect our business. Government and legal regulations with respect to the Internet may damage our business. There are currently few significant laws or regulations directly applicable to access to or commerce on the Internet. It is possible, however, that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, covering issues such as the positioning of sponsored listings on search results pages. For example, the FTC has in the past reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid-search practices to Internet users. In 2002, the FTC issued guidance recommending that all search engine companies ensure that all paid-search results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid search is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid-search listings on search results. In February 2009, the FTC issued a staff report titled “Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising.” In December 2009, the FTC issued “Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising.” 21 Table of Contents The adoption of laws, regulations, guidelines and principles relating to online advertising, including behavioral advertising, placement of paid search advertisements or user privacy, defamation or taxation and the like may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet, which in turn, could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any regulation of our use of cookies or similar technologies could adversely affect our business. We use small text files placed in a consumer’s browser, commonly known as cookies, to facilitate authentication, preference management, research and measurement, personalization and advertisement and content delivery. Several Federal, state and international governmental authorities are regularly evaluating the privacy implications inherent in the use of third-party web “cookies” for behavioral advertising and other purposes. There are an increasing number of laws and regulations under consideration in the United States and abroad that have suggested limitations on or eliminations of “cookies” or which propose to regulate commercial and advertising practices on the Internet. Certain privacy advocates and federal, state and local governmental bodies have endorsed these proposals. Any regulation of these tracking technologies and other current online advertising practices could adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with federal, state and international privacy laws and regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business. A variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. The existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. For example, recently there have been Congressional hearings and increased attention to the capture and use of location-based information relating to users of smartphones and other mobile devices. We have posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of subscriber data on our websites and applications. Several Internet companies have incurred penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in their privacy policies and practices. In addition, several states have adopted legislation that requires businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, FTC requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others or other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile, which could cause investment losses for our stockholders and result in stockholder litigation with substantial costs, economic loss and diversion of our resources. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, by us or a competitor; • market acceptance of our new and existing services and technologies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • continued growth in the Internet and the infrastructure for providing Internet access and carrying Internet traffic; • introductions of new services by us or our competitors; • enactment of new government regulations affecting our industry; • changes in the number of our advertising partners or the aggregate amount of advertising dollars spent with us; • seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage; • loss of key employees; • institution of litigation, including intellectual property litigation, by or against us; 22 Table of Contents • publication of research reports about us or our industry or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • short selling of our stock; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and • changes in our industry and the overall economic environment. Due to the short-term nature of some of our advertising partner agreements and the emerging nature of the online advertising market, we may not be able to accurately predict our operating results on a quarterly basis, if at all, which may lead to volatility in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Capital Market and the market for online commerce companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation against us, whether or not a judgment is entered against us, could result in substantial costs, and potentially, economic loss, and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. As a result of these and other factors, you may not be able to resell your shares above the price you paid and may suffer a loss on your investment. We have never paid dividends on our common stock. Since our inception, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future due to our limited funds for operations. In addition, our loan agreement with Square One Bank restricts the payment of dividends. Therefore, any return on your investment would likely come only from an increase in the market value of our common stock. Issuances of shares of common stock will likely have a dilutive effect on our stock price. As of February 28, 2014, we have 3,375,473 options to purchase our common stock outstanding at a weighted average exercise price of $4.17, 247,855 restricted stock units (“RSUs”) outstanding, and 766,268 warrants to purchase our common stock outstanding at a weighted average exercise price of $2.03. The exercise of options and warrants at prices below the market price of our common stock could adversely affect the price of shares of our common stock. In addition, the exercise of options and warrants, and the vesting of RSUs and PSUs, will cause dilution to our existing shareholders. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of our capital stock in connection with collaborations or commercial agreements or in connection with other financing efforts. To the extent that we issue options, warrants, RSUs or PSUs to purchase, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in the future and those options, warrants, RSUs, PSUs or other securities are exercised, converted or exchanged (or if we issue shares of restricted stock), stockholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series. Because almost all of our outstanding shares are freely tradable, sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding 23,037,738 shares of common stock, of which our directors and executive officers owned 214,154 shares as of December 31, 2013, which are subject to the limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In general, Rule 144 provides that any non-affiliate of ours, who has held restricted common stock for at least six months, is entitled to sell their restricted stock freely, provided that we stay current in our filings with the SEC. Because almost all of our outstanding shares are freely tradable and the shares held by our affiliates may be freely sold (subject to the Rule 144 limitations), sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. 23 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and in our amended and restated bylaws: • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our Chief Executive Officer, by a majority of the members of our board of directors or by the holders of shares entitled to cast not less than 10% of the votes at the meeting; • stockholder proposals to be brought before any meeting of our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures; • our board of directors is classified into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible; • newly-created directorships and vacancies on our board of directors may only be filled by a majority of remaining directors, and not by our stockholders; • a director may be removed from office only for cause by the holders of at least 75% of the voting power entitled to vote at an election of directors; • our amended and restated bylaws may be further amended by our stockholders only upon a vote of at least 75% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class; and • our board of directors is authorized to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock with rights and preferences, including voting rights, designated from time to time by our board of directors. We implemented a Stockholder Rights Plan, dated October 15, 2008, which may also have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to affect changes in control. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from our company one one-thousandth (1/1000) of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.00001, which we refer to as the preferred shares, of our company at a price of $10.00, which we refer to as the purchase price, subject to adjustment. The number of shares constituting the series of preferred shares is 30,000. The Rights are intended to protect our stockholders in the event of an unfair or coercive offer to acquire us and to provide the Board of Directors with adequate time to evaluate unsolicited offers. The Rights may have anti-takeover effects. The Rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15% or more of the shares of our outstanding common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors. The Rights, however, should not affect any prospective offer or willingness to make an offer at a fair price as determined by our Board. The Rights should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by our Board of Directors. However, because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding that acquisition. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides, subject to enumerated exceptions, that if a person acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, the person is an “interested stockholder” and may not engage in “business combinations” with us for a period of three years from the time the person acquired 15% or more of our voting stock. The conversion price of the Notes issued in April 2013 can fluctuate under certain circumstances which, if triggered, can result in potentially material further dilution to our stockholders. Under the terms of the Notes, the conversion price of the Notes can fluctuate in the event (i) there is an event of default under the Notes, the holders of the Notes elect to use the alternative conversion price to convert their Notes, and the alternative conversion price is less than the then-current conversion price for the Notes, (ii) the Company undertakes certain stock dividends, split, combinations, distributions, or (iii) the Company undertakes certain issuances of common stock or convertible securities at prices lower than the then-current conversion price for the Notes. In such instances, the conversion price of the Notes can fluctuate materially lower than the current conversion price of $2.01 per share. 24 Table of Contents In the event there is an event of default under the Notes and the holder elects to convert the Notes, the Notes would be converted at the lower of the conversion price then in effect or a price equal to 80% of the volume weight average price on the trading day immediately preceding the conversion date. By way of illustration, assuming the Company is in an event of default under the Notes and the holders of the Notes elect to use the alternative conversion price to convert their Notes, the following table sets forth the dilutive impact of such a conversion assuming that the alternative price (i.e., the then-current conversion price or 80% of the volume-weighted average sale price for the common stock on the trading day immediately preceding such conversion) is approximately 25%, 50%, and 75% of the current conversion price of $2.01: Conversion Price Number of Shares to be Issuedupon Conversion $2.01 (current conversion price) 2,487,562 $1.50 (approximate 25% decrease) 3,333,332 $1.00 (approximate 50% decrease) 5,000,000 $0.50 (approximate 75% decrease) 10,000,000 In the event of a stock dividend, split or combination, the conversion price of the Notes would be adjusted in accordance with the following formula: a x (b/c) Where: a= Current Conversion Price b= Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding before the event c= Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding after the event In the event of a subsequent issuance of Common Stock by us, the conversion price of the Notes would be adjusted in accordance with the following formula: a x (b+(c/a))/d Where: a= Current Conversion Price b= Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at time of issuance c= Aggregate consideration received by the issuance d= Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding after the issuance By way of illustration, the following table sets forth the impact of a subsequent issuance of Common Stock by us at approximately 25%, 50% and 75% of the current conversion price of $2.01 in which the total value of such subsequent issuance of Common Stock is valued at $1,000,000, $5,000,000 or $10,000,000: Issuance Value Issuance Price Number of Shares to be IssuedUpon Conversion of Notes $ 1.50 2,505,564 $1,000,000 $ 1.00 2,541,037 $ 0.50 2,576,510 $ 1.50 2,570,508 $5,000,000 $ 1.00 2,733,959 $ 0.50 2,897,410 $ 1.50 2,638,637 $10,000,000 $ 1.00 2,936,343 $ 0.50 3,234,049 25 Table of Contents Accordingly, if these provisions are triggered, then potentially material additional dilution to the existing stockholders of the Company may occur and the ability of the Company to complete a subsequent financing to fund its future operating needs could be materially adversely effected. The Notes issued in April 2013 contain provisions which allow us to pay our interest obligations under the Notes in shares of Common Stock discounted to the current market price. The Notes contain provisions which allow us to pay our interest obligations under the Notes in shares of our Common Stock instead of cash. If we elect to pay our interest obligations under the Notes in shares of our Common Stock, the number of shares to be issued in satisfaction of such interest obligations would be determined by dividing such interest obligation amount by 93% of the market price of our Common Stock as of the applicable payment date. The “market price” of our Common Stock is the lesser of (i) the closing sale price of our Common Stock on the date before the applicable payment date and (ii) the volume weight average price over the 20 trading day period prior to the date before the applicable payment date. Since the price at which our Common Stock is converted into the interest obligation amount is at a discount to the market price and there is no guarantee as to what the market price will be, a potentially unlimited number of additional shares of our Common Stock could be used to pay these obligations. By way of illustration, the following table sets forth the impact that lower market prices for our Common Stock would have on the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued in satisfaction of our interest obligations under the Notes, assuming a market price of approximately 25%, 50% and 75% of the current conversion price of the Notes: Market Price of Common Stock at interest payment date Conversion price(93% of Market Price) Number of shares of Common Stockissuedfor interest payment $2.01 $ 1.87 374,472 $1.50 $ 1.40 501,792 $1.00 $ 0.93 752,688 $0.50 $ 0.47 1,505,376 Accordingly, if we elect to pay our interest obligations in shares of Common Stock, then potentially material additional dilution to our existing stockholders may occur and our ability to complete a subsequent financing to fund our operating needs could be materially adversely affected. The number of warrants issuable pursuant to the warrants issued in the April 2013 Subordinated Notes transaction and the exercise price of such warrants can fluctuate under certain circumstances which, if triggered, can result in potentially material further dilution to our stockholders. The number of shares of our common stock for which the warrants issued in the April 2013 Subordinated Notes transaction are exercisable and the price at which such shares of our common Stock may be purchased upon exercise of the warrant may be adjusted in the event (i) we undertake certain stock dividends, split, combinations, distributions, or (ii) we undertake certain issuances of common stock or convertible securities at prices lower than the then-current exercise price for such warrants. These provisions are intended to provide the investors in our April 2013 Subordinates Notes transaction with partial protection from the effects of actions that dilute their interests in our Company on a fully-converted and fully-exercised basis. These provisions could result in substantial dilution to investors in our Common Stock that purchased our shares at higher prices. In such instances, the number of shares of our Common Stock for which such warrants are exercisable and the price at which such shares of our common Stock may be purchased upon exercise of the warrant can fluctuate materially lower than the current exercise price of $2.01 per share. In the event of a stock dividend, split or combination, the number of shares of common stock acquirable pursuant to such warrants would be adjusted in accordance with the following formula: a x (b/c) 26 Table of Contents Where: a= Current total number of shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the warrant b= Number of shares of common stock outstanding after the event c= Number of shares of common stock outstanding before the event Simultaneously, the exercise price of such warrants would be adjusted in accordance with the following formula: (a x b)/c Where: a= Current warrant price b= Number of shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the warrant prior to the adjustment above c= Number of shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the warrant after such adjustment In the event of a subsequent issuance of common stock by us, the number of shares of common stock acquirable pursuant to these warrants would be adjusted in accordance with the following formula: a/(a x ((b+(c/a))/d)) Where: a= Current exercise price of the warrant b= Number of shares of common stock outstanding prior to the issuance c= Aggregate consideration received by the issuance d= Number of shares of common stock outstanding after the issuance Simultaneously, the exercise price of the warrants would be adjusted in accordance with the following formula: a x ((b+(c/a))/d) Where: a= Current exercise price of the warrant b= Number of shares of common stock outstanding prior to the issuance c= Aggregate consideration received by the issuance d= Number of shares of common stock outstanding after the issuance By way of illustration, the following table sets forth the impact of a subsequent issuance of common stock by us at approximately 25%, 50% and 75% of the current exercise price of these warrants of $2.01 in which the total value of such subsequent issuance of common stock is valued at $1,000,000, $5,000,000 or $10,000,000: Issuance Value Issuance Price Number of Shares Issuable InAggregate to Warrant Holders Exercise Price of Such WarrantsPost-Subsequent Issuance $1,000,000 $ $ $ 1.50 1.00 0.50 751,668 730,564 701,196 $ $ $ 2.00 1.97 1.89 $5,000,000 $ $ $ 1.50 1.00 0.50 771,152 820,186 967,292 $ $ $ 1.95 1.83 1.55 $10,000,000 $ $ $ 1.50 1.00 0.50 791,590 880,902 1,148,838 $ $ $ 1.89 1.70 1.31 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 