ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Need for Additional Financing We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have a limited operating history. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $321.9 million, of which $96.3 million related to non-cash dividends and adjustments to the preferred stock redemption value. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1997. Net losses were $51.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $40.4 million in 2007, and $35.5 million in 2006. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. These losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing small molecule drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We have primarily financed our operations and internal growth through sales of common stock and preferred stock. In addition, we have received upfront license fees and milestone and other payments pursuant to our collaborative arrangements with third parties, including $40.0 million in upfront license fees from Merck received in January 2008, a $1.5 million milestone payment from Ipsen Developments Limited, or Ipsen, received in April 2008, and $5.0 million received from Merck in guaranteed cost reimbursements for research and development activities in December 2008. FARESTON® is currently our only commercial product and, until such time that we receive regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates, we expect that FARESTON® will account for all of our product revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized $1.1 million in net revenues from the sale of FARESTON®. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our efforts to obtain regulatory approval of toremifene 80 mg for the prevention of bone fractures and treatment of other estrogen deficiency side effects of androgen deprivation therapy in men with prostate cancer, our ongoing clinical trials, our increasing SARM research efforts with Merck as a part of our collaboration, and the continued preclinical and clinical development of other product candidates, including GTx-758. In addition, subject to regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we expect to incur additional sales and marketing expenses and increased manufacturing expenses. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We will need to raise additional capital to: • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development; and • commercialize our product candidates, if any such product candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. We estimate that our current cash and cash equivalent balances, short-term investments, interest income and product revenue from the sale of FARESTON® will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements through at least the next twelve months. This estimate does not include funding from future milestone payments that we may receive under our existing collaborations with Merck and Ipsen, nor does it include any funding that we may receive under potential future collaboration arrangements with other pharmaceutical companies or potential future issuances and sales of our securities. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our and/or our collaborators’ clinical trials and other research and development activities; • future clinical trial results; • the achievement of certain milestone events under, and other matters related to, our collaborative arrangements with Merck and Ipsen; • the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; 27 Table of Contents • the cost and timing of regulatory filings and/or approvals and any related restrictions, limitations, and/or warnings; • potential future licensing fees, milestone payments and royalty payments, including any milestone payments or royalty payments that we may receive under our collaborative arrangements with Merck and Ipsen; • the cost and timing of establishing medical education, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or collaboration and licensing arrangements, such as our arrangements with Merck and Ipsen, as well as through interest income earned on the investment of our cash balances and short-term investments, and revenues from the sale of FARESTON®. With the exception of payments that we may receive under our collaborations with Merck and Ipsen, we do not currently have any commitments for future external funding. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and/or licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or product candidates, or we may be required to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to raise additional funds may be adversely impacted by current economic conditions, including the effects of the recent disruptions to and volatility in the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide, which have resulted in the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of U.S. and other governmental intervention. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available due to the recent disruptions to and volatility in the credit and financial markets in the United States and worldwide or other factors, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or obtain funds through collaborations with others that are on unfavorable terms or that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to develop on our own. Risks Related to Development of Product Candidates We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if our or our collaborators’ clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, can take many years and has an uncertain outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Typically, the failure rate for development candidates is high. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. In clinical studies, the efficacy and/or safety results from the trial may be insufficient to support the submission or approval of a new drug application, or NDA, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. For example, in connection with our pivotal Phase III clinical trial of toremifene 20 mg for the prevention of prostate cancer in high risk men with precancerous prostate lesions called high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, or high grade PIN, a planned efficacy interim analysis was conducted in the second quarter of 2008, which concluded that the efficacy results did not reach the specified statistical outcome and we were therefore unable to submit a NDA to the FDA based on this efficacy interim analysis. Although we anticipate conducting a planned efficacy analysis in the summer of 2009, the analysis may conclude that the efficacy results are insufficient to support the submission of a NDA in which case we would not submit a NDA to the FDA until the end of the full 36-month clinical trial period, if at all. 28 Table of Contents We or our collaborators may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing, and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our or our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our product candidates, including: • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our collaborators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • preclinical or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, which may require us or our collaborators to conduct additional preclinical or clinical testing or to abandon projects that we expect to be promising; • registration or enrollment in clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, resulting in significant delays; • we or our collaborators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • regulators or institutional review boards may suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; and • our product candidates may not have the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects. If any of these events were to occur and, as a result, we or our collaborators have significant delays in or termination of clinical trials, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired, which would adversely impact our financial results. For some of the indications for which we intend to conduct or are currently conducting clinical trials for our product candidates, we do not have evidence from prior preclinical studies in animals or clinical trials in humans of the potential effectiveness of such product candidates for such indications. In the absence of preclinical or clinical data, our beliefs regarding the potential effectiveness of our product candidates for these indications is generally based on pharmacokinetic data and analyses and pharmacological rationales. Our or our collaborators’ preclinical or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results that would not support our beliefs regarding the potential effectiveness of our product candidates. If we or our collaborators observe serious or other adverse events during the time our product candidates are in development or after our products are approved and on the market, we or our collaborators may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, may be denied regulatory approval of such products, may be forced to change the labeling of such products or may be required to withdraw any such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. In our Phase III clinical trial for toremifene 20 mg for the prevention of prostate cancer in high risk men with high grade PIN, some patients have experienced venous thromboembolic events, or VTEs, such as deep vein thromboses and pulmonary embolisms, as well as myocardial infarctions, or heart attacks, which have been considered by investigators as possibly related to treatment with toremifene 20 mg. Because this trial is blinded, we cannot establish whether these patients received placebo or toremifene 20 mg in this trial. In addition, although the results from our Phase III clinical trial for toremifene 80 mg for the prevention of bone fractures and treatment of other estrogen deficiency side effects of androgen deprivation therapy, or ADT, in men with prostate cancer showed that the drug had a favorable safety profile and was well tolerated, there were a higher number of VTEs in the toremifene 80 mg treatment group 17 (2.6%) versus 7 (1.1%) in the placebo group. Even though the majority of VTEs occurred in men who were at high risk for a VTE (including: age greater than 80 years, history of VTEs, recent surgical procedure or immobilization) and our results showed that the number of men without major risk factors for VTEs in whom a VTE occurred was 5 in the toremifene 80 mg treatment group versus 3 in the placebo group, the FDA will consider the overall safety profile when making its determination to grant approval and the requirement of any potential warnings in the label if approval is granted. 29 Table of Contents As part of our effort to complete the requirements for the submission of applications for regulatory approval of toremifene 80 mg and 20 mg, we have conducted a number of studies of toremifene in addition to our clinical trials, including a Thorough QT study (toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg), a bioequivalence study (toremifene 80 mg) and a series of drug-drug interaction studies (toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg), and are conducting a semen quality study (toremifene 20 mg) to assess the effect of toremifene. The results of the Thorough QT study of 250 healthy male volunteers, with 5 parallel cohorts receiving 20 mg, 80 mg or 300 mg doses of toremifene, moxifloxacin, or placebo, showed that toremifene prolonged the QT interval in a dose dependent manner. The mean change in QTcB (a measurement of QT interval corrected by Bazett’s formula) from baseline relative to placebo for toremifene 20 mg was 5.79 milliseconds, for toremifene 80 mg, it was 22.43 milliseconds, and for moxifloxacin, it was 8.83 milliseconds. Since we market FARESTON® in the United States under a license agreement with Orion, we notified the FDA of the Thorough QT study results and have proposed modifications to the FARESTON® label in the United States. FDA action on the proposed label changes is pending. Separately, Orion recommended label changes to the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA. In January 2009, the EMEA recommended that the FARESTON® label within the European Union reflect that toremifene should not be given to patients at risk of prolonged QT intervals or other certain heart problems. The results of these completed studies have been included as a part of the NDA submission to the FDA for our toremifene 80 mg product candidate for the prevention of bone fractures in men with prostate cancer on ADT and, subject to receipt of favorable results from our ongoing toremifene 20 mg Phase III clinical trial, will be included as a part of the NDA submission for our toremifene 20 mg product candidate for the prevention of prostate cancer in high risk men with high grade PIN, and will be used to update the label for FARESTON®. The study results could lead to the inclusion of restrictions, limitations and/or warnings in the label of FARESTON® or an approved product candidate, which may adversely affect the marketability of the product or limit the patients to whom the product is prescribed. In addition, in our Phase II clinical trial for OstarineTM for the treatment of cancer cachexia (cancer induced muscle loss), we observed mild elevations of hepatic enzymes in a few patients, and in our preclinical studies for OstarineTM, only at the highest doses, we observed expected selective effects on the reproductive and other target organs in the male population consistent with the stimulating and inhibiting effects on the androgen receptor which is located in these organs. If the incidence of the events described above increases in number or severity, if a regulatory authority believes that these or other events constitute an adverse effect caused by the drug, or if other effects are identified during clinical trials that we are currently conducting, during clinical trials that we or our collaborators may conduct in the future or after any of our product candidates are approved and marketed: • we or our collaborators may be required to conduct additional preclinical or clinical trials, make changes in labeling of any such approved products, reformulate any such products, or implement changes to or obtain new approvals of our contractors’ manufacturing facilities; • regulatory authorities may be unwilling to approve our product candidates or may withdraw approval of our products; • we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Any of these events could prevent approval or harm sales of the affected product candidates or products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing any such products. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If third parties do not manufacture our product candidates in sufficient quantities, in the required timeframe, and at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates would be delayed. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities, and we rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. 30 Table of Contents We have agreed to purchase from Orion Corporation, or Orion, our worldwide requirements of toremifene in a finished tablet form at specified prices under a license and supply agreement. Similarly, Ipsen has agreed to purchase from Orion toremifene tablets for clinical testing and commercial sale in the European Union, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Lichtenstein and the Commonwealth of Independent States, which we refer to collectively as the European Territory, under an amended supply agreement with Orion. As such, both we and Ipsen rely on Orion as the single source supplier of toremifene. In the event that Orion terminates our license and supply agreement due to our uncured material breach or bankruptcy, we would not be able to manufacture toremifene until the expiration of Orion’s patents with respect to the composition of matter of toremifene. Although Orion’s composition of matter patents within the European Territory have expired, and as such, would not prevent Ipsen from manufacturing toremifene within the European Territory, there is no obligation on the part of Orion to transfer its manufacturing technology to Ipsen or to assist Ipsen in developing manufacturing capabilities to meet Ipsen’s supply needs if Ipsen is in material breach of its supply agreement with Orion. Although we and Ipsen have agreed to collaborate with each other in the event either of our supply rights are terminated by Orion for any reason, a disruption in the supply of toremifene could delay the development of and impair our and Ipsen’s ability to commercialize toremifene. In addition, Orion may terminate its obligation to supply us and Ipsen with toremifene if Orion ceases its manufacture of toremifene permanently, or Orion may terminate its obligation to supply us with toremifene if toremifene is not approved for commercial sale in the United States prior to December 31, 2009. If such termination occurs because Orion is no longer manufacturing toremifene, or because such regulatory approval is not obtained prior to the specified date, we and Ipsen will have the right to manufacture toremifene, but any arrangements we make for an alternative supply would still have to be made with a qualified alternative supplier with appropriate FDA approval in order for us to obtain our supply requirements for toremifene. We and Ipsen have mutually agreed to cooperate in the manufacture of toremifene in the event Orion ceases manufacture of toremifene for any of the above-mentioned reasons. We also rely on Orion to cooperate with us in the filing and maintenance of regulatory filings with respect to the manufacture of toremifene. Orion may terminate its obligation to assist us in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval of toremifene if we do not receive regulatory approval for toremifene in the United States prior to December 31, 2009. If Orion terminates its obligation to cooperate in these activities, or does not cooperate with us or otherwise does not successfully file or maintain these regulatory filings, we would be required to make arrangements with a qualified alternative supplier, which could delay or prevent regulatory approval of toremifene. Historically, we have relied on third party vendors for the manufacture of OstarineTM drug substance. However, Merck has assumed primary manufacturing responsibilities for OstarineTM and other SARM products developed under our exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Merck. If Merck does not manufacture and supply sufficient quantities of clinical trial materials to support our clinical trials, we could experience a delay in conducting clinical trials of OstarineTM or other SARM product candidates. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing or any other third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to continue relationships with Orion for toremifene and Merck for OstarineTM and other SARM product candidates, or to do so at an acceptable cost, or if Merck or other suppliers fail to meet our requirements for OstarineTM or other SARM product candidates for any reason, we would be required to obtain alternate suppliers. However, we may not be permitted to obtain alternate suppliers for toremifene under our license agreement with Orion if Orion terminates its supply of toremifene due to our uncured material breach or bankruptcy. Any inability to obtain alternate suppliers, including an inability to obtain approval from the FDA of an alternate supplier, would delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of these product candidates. Use of third-party manufacturers may increase the risk that we will not have adequate supplies of our product candidates. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; • the possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us; • drug product supplies not meeting the requisite requirements for clinical trial use; and 31 Table of Contents • the possible exercise by Orion of its right to terminate its obligation to supply us with toremifene: • if it permanently ceases manufacture of toremifene or if we do not obtain regulatory approval of toremifene in the United States prior to December 31, 2009; or • if Orion terminates due to our uncured material breach or bankruptcy. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. Our product candidates and any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. For example, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in our toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg product candidates is also the active pharmaceutical ingredient in FARESTON®. Further, Orion has agreed to supply toremifene tablets to Ipsen for clinical trials and commercial supply in the European Territory. Orion also manufactures toremifene for third parties for sale outside the United States for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women. Our present or future manufacturing partners may not be able to comply with FDA-mandated current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates. We are dependent on our collaborative arrangement with Ipsen to develop and commercialize toremifene in the European Territory and are dependent on our collaborative arrangement with Merck for the joint research, development and commercialization of SARM compounds and products. We may also be dependent upon additional collaborative arrangements to complete the development and commercialization of some of our other product candidates. These collaborative arrangements may place the development and commercialization of our product candidates outside our control, may require us to relinquish important rights or may otherwise be on terms unfavorable to us. The loss of Ipsen or Merck as a collaborator in the development or commercialization of toremifene or SARM compounds and related SARM products, respectively, any dispute over the terms of our collaborations with Ipsen or Merck, or any other adverse developments in our relationships with Ipsen or Merck could materially harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. For example, Ipsen is obligated to initiate and conduct appropriate clinical studies as required by the appropriate regulatory authorities in order to obtain marketing approvals of toremifene within the European Territory. Any failure on the part of Ipsen to initiate these studies could delay the commercialization of toremifene within the European Territory. Likewise, Merck is responsible for conducting all clinical trials for SARM product candidates developed under the collaboration, and the failure of Merck to initiate one or more of these clinical trials would adversely affect the development of our SARM product candidates. We may not be successful in entering into additional collaborative arrangements with other third parties. If we fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements on favorable terms, it could delay or impair our ability to develop and commercialize our other product candidates and could increase our costs of development and commercialization. Dependence on collaborative arrangements, including our arrangements with Ipsen and Merck for the development and commercialization of toremifene and SARM compounds and products, respectively, subjects us to a number of risks, including: • we are not able to control either the amount and timing of resources that Ipsen devotes to toremifene or the amount of timing and resources that Merck devotes to SARM compounds and products developed under our collaboration with Merck; • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our potential future partners may devote to our product candidates; • our partners may experience financial difficulties or changes in business focus; • we may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing and distribution rights; 32 Table of Contents • under certain circumstances, Ipsen may not be required to commercialize toremifene in certain countries of the European Territory if Ipsen determines that it is not commercially reasonable for it to do so; • pricing reimbursement constraints within the European Territory may diminish the prospects of our receiving royalty payments from Ipsen on aggregate net sales of toremifene in some or all of the countries within the European Territory; • should a collaborator fail to develop or commercialize one of our compounds or product candidates, we may not receive any future milestone payments and will not receive any royalties for the compound or product candidate; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • under certain circumstances, a collaborator could move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and • collaborative arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our collaborative arrangements with Ipsen and Merck. We may not receive any future milestone payments provided for under our collaborative arrangements with Ipsen and Merck if our agreements with them are terminated, if certain clinical development and regulatory milestones under our agreements with them are not achieved, with respect to our agreement with Ipsen, if Ipsen fails to develop and commercialize toremifene in the European Territory, or, with respect to our agreement with Merck, if we and Merck fail to develop and commercialize any of the SARMs included in or arising from our collaboration. In addition, even if required regulatory approvals are obtained, it is possible that neither Ipsen nor Merck will successfully market and sell toremifene or any SARM products, respectively, in which case we would not receive royalties to the extent that we currently anticipate. Furthermore, our royalty rates under our collaboration and license agreement with Ipsen are subject to a possible reduction if a generic version of toremifene achieves specified sales levels in a major country within the European Territory, and each of Ipsen and Merck may be entitled to offset a portion of any royalties due to us if Ipsen or Merck licenses patent rights from a third party that would otherwise be infringed by Ipsen’s or Merck’s use, manufacture, sale or import of toremifene or SARM compounds, respectively. Under our agreement with Ipsen, we and Ipsen have agreed that neither party will seek to commercialize, promote, market or sell certain products within the European Territory for an agreed period of time subsequent to the time of the first commercial launch of toremifene within the European Territory. We and Ipsen have also agreed to grant to the other a right of first negotiation with respect to the development, marketing, sale and distribution of any new SERM-based products for the field of the prevention and treatment of prostate cancer or related side effects, or any other indication the parties agree on. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to reach an agreement with Ipsen on reasonable terms, or at all, for any new SERM-based products. Under our agreement with Merck, we and Merck have agreed that neither party will engage in the development and commercialization of SARMs with any third party for an agreed upon period of time. However, we cannot assure you that we and Merck will be able to successfully develop new SARM products or identify new indications for existing and/or future SARM products under our collaboration with Merck. Additionally, Merck has the right to terminate our agreement with Merck for any reason after a specified period of time with prior written notice, and Ipsen has the right to terminate our agreement with Ipsen with 12 months prior written notice for any reason and with 30 days prior written notice as a result of legitimate and documented safety concerns. Both Ipsen and Merck may terminate their agreements with us following our uncured material breach or bankruptcy. If our agreements with Ipsen and Merck are terminated, the anticipated future benefits to us from these agreements would be eliminated, the development and commercialization of toremifene in the European Territory and the development and commercialization of our SARM product candidates could be delayed, and our costs of development would increase. For example, Merck’s obligation to pay us the remaining $10.0 million of the $15.0 million in guaranteed cost reimbursements for research funding over a three year period is subject to our exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Merck not being terminated for cause and there not occurring certain change of control events involving us during such three year period. In any such or similar events, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our collaborative arrangements with Ipsen and Merck. 33 Table of Contents If third parties on whom we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or to commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we rely on third parties to assist with our preclinical development of product candidates. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our license agreement with Orion excludes the use of toremifene in humans to treat breast cancer outside the United States and may limit our ability to market toremifene for human uses outside the United States. Our exclusive license and supply agreement from Orion excludes the use of toremifene for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer outside the United States. Orion has licensed to other parties the right to market, sell and distribute toremifene for the treatment of advanced breast cancer outside the United States and could license additional parties to market, sell and distribute toremifene for this indication outside the United States. Under the terms of our license agreement with Orion, Orion may require us and Ipsen to modify our final toremifene development plans for specified major markets outside the United States if those development plans could adversely affect Orion’s or Orion’s other licensees’ activities related to FARESTON® for breast cancer outside the United States or toremifene-based animal health products. Although we do not believe that our or Ipsen’s development plans adversely affect these activities, any future modifications to our or Ipsen’s plans imposed by Orion may limit our and Ipsen’s ability to maximize the commercial potential of toremifene. Furthermore, we and our affiliates are prohibited from marketing or selling products containing SERM compounds (other than toremifene) for human use in the United States and other major countries located outside the European Union during the term of Orion’s patents covering toremifene in such major countries, which prohibition shall expire when Orion’s patents in the United States expire in September 2009. The binding effect of this noncompetition provision on us and our affiliates may make it more difficult for us to be acquired by some potential buyers during the relevant time periods even if we determine that a sale of the company would be in the best interests of our stockholders. If some or all of our, or our licensors’, patents expire or are invalidated or are found to be unenforceable, or if some or all of our patent applications do not result in issued patents or result in patents with narrow or unenforceable claims, or if we are prevented from asserting that the claims of an issued patent cover a product of a third party, we may be subject to competition from third parties with products with the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for our product candidates, the methods for treating patients in the product indications using these product candidates and the methods used to synthesize these product candidates. We will be able to protect our product candidates and the methods for treating patients in the product indications using these product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we or our exclusive licensors own or control such valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets. Additionally, Ipsen’s ability to successfully market toremifene within a substantial portion of the European Territory may depend on having marketing and data exclusivity from the appropriate regulatory authorities. Our rights to certain patent applications relating to SARM compounds that we have licensed from the University of Tennessee Research Foundation, or UTRF, are subject to the terms of UTRF’s inter-institutional agreements with The Ohio State University, or OSU, and our rights to future related improvements in some instances are subject to UTRF’s exercise of exclusive options under its agreements with OSU for such improvements. In addition, under the terms of our agreements with the diagnostic companies to which we provided clinical samples from our Phase IIb and Phase III clinical trials of toremifene 20 mg tablets, we will not obtain any intellectual property rights in any of their developments, including any test developed to detect high grade PIN or prostate cancer. 34 Table of Contents Even if our product candidates and the methods for treating patients for prescribed indications using these product candidates are covered by valid and enforceable patents and have claims with sufficient scope and support in the specification, the patents will provide protection only for a limited amount of time. For example, the patent that we have licensed from Orion covering the composition of matter of toremifene expires in the United States in September 2009. Foreign counterparts of this patent have expired prior to Ipsen or us receiving regulatory approval to commercialize toremifene. As a result, outside the United States and in the United States after 2009, we will need to rely primarily on the protection afforded by method of use patents relating to the use of toremifene for the relevant product indications that have been issued or may be issued from our owned or licensed patent applications. Also, within the European Union, Ipsen may need to rely primarily on the protection afforded by marketing and data exclusivity for the toremifene products to be sold within the countries comprising the European Union. To date, many of our applications for method of use patents filed for toremifene outside of the United States are still pending and have not yielded issued patents. Loss of marketing and data exclusivity for the toremifene products to be commercialized within the European Union could adversely affect its ability to successfully commercialize these products. We are not eligible for any such exclusivity or further extension of the composition of matter patent of toremifene licensed to us by Orion in the United States. Our and our licensors’ ability to obtain patents can be highly uncertain and involve complex and in some cases unsettled legal issues and factual questions. Furthermore, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued in different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented invention by others. Therefore, if the issuance to us or our licensors, in a given country, of a patent covering an invention is not followed by the issuance, in other countries, of patents covering the same invention, or if any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability or scope of the claims in a patent issued in one country is not similar to the interpretation given to the corresponding patent issued in another country, our ability to protect our intellectual property in those countries may be limited. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Even if patents are issued to us or our licensors regarding our product candidates or methods of using them, those patents can be challenged by our competitors who can argue such patents are invalid or unenforceable or that the claims of the issued patents should be limited or narrowly construed. Patents also will not protect our product candidates if competitors devise ways of making or using these product candidates without legally infringing our patents. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies create a regulatory environment that encourages companies to challenge branded drug patents or to create non-infringing versions of a patented product in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug applications for generic substitutes. These same types of incentives encourage competitors to submit new drug applications that rely on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by the drug sponsor, providing another less burdensome pathway to approval. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we lose our licenses from Orion and UTRF, we may be unable to continue our business. We have licensed intellectual property rights and technology from Orion and UTRF under our license agreements with each of them. Each of these license agreements may be terminated by the other party if we are in breach of our obligations under, or fail to perform any terms of, the agreement and fail to cure that breach. If any of these agreements were terminated, then we may lose our rights to utilize the technology and intellectual property covered by that agreement to market, distribute and sell our licensed products, which may prevent us from continuing our business. Additionally, the termination of our UTRF license related to SARM technology could lead to a termination of our exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Merck, which would terminate our rights to any potential milestone or royalty payments from Merck. In addition, the termination of our UTRF license for chemoprevention of prostate cancer could lead to a termination of our license and collaboration agreement with Ipsen, which would terminate our rights to any potential milestone or royalty payments from Ipsen. 35 Table of Contents Off-label sale or use of toremifene products could decrease sales of toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg tablets if approved for commercial sale and could lead to pricing pressure if such products become available at competitive prices and in dosages that are appropriate for the indications for which we and Ipsen are developing toremifene. In all countries in which we hold or have licensed rights to patents or patent applications related to toremifene, the composition of matter patents we license from Orion will expire before our method of use patents, and in countries outside the United States, the composition of matter patents have already expired. Our method of use patents may not protect toremifene from the risk of off-label sale or use of other toremifene products in place of toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg tablets. Physicians are permitted to prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the drug’s labeling and that differ from those uses tested and approved by the FDA or its equivalent. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties and are particularly prevalent for cancer treatments. Any off-label sales of toremifene may adversely affect our or Ipsen’s ability to generate revenue from the sale of toremifene 80 mg and 20 mg tablets, if approved for commercial sale. Even in the event that patents are issued from our pending method of use patent applications, after the expiration of the patent covering the composition of matter of toremifene in a particular country, competitors could market and sell toremifene products for uses for which FARESTON® has already been approved. Thus, physicians in such countries would be permitted to prescribe these other toremifene products for indications that are protected by our method of use patents or patents issuing from pending patent applications, even though these other toremifene products would not have been approved for those uses, and in most cases, the physician would not be liable for contributing to the infringement of our patents. Moreover, because Orion has licensed and could further license other parties to market, sell and distribute toremifene for breast cancer outside the United States, physicians in such countries could prescribe these products sold pursuant to another Orion license off-label. This further increases the risk of off-label competition developing for toremifene for the indications for which we and Ipsen are developing this product candidate. In addition, if no patents are issued with respect to our pending method of use patent applications related to the use of toremifene in the countries outside of the United States where these applications are currently pending, after the expiration of the patent covering the composition of matter of toremifene in a particular country, we would have no patent to prevent competitors from marketing and selling generic versions of toremifene at doses and in formulations equivalent to toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg tablets for the indications covered by our pending method of use patent applications. Also, regulatory authorities may not recognize marketing and data exclusivity for toremifene in the European Union for the treatment of prostate cancer and estrogen deficiency related side effects resulting from ADT. If generic versions of toremifene are able to be sold in countries within the European Territory for the indications for which Ipsen anticipates marketing toremifene, the royalties to be paid to us by Ipsen will be reduced if the total generic sales exceed a certain threshold for a certain period of time. Similarly, the royalties we will be paying to Orion for its licensing and supply of toremifene will be reduced if generic sales thresholds are reached. If we infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it may increase our costs or prevent us from being able to commercialize our product candidates. There is a risk that we are infringing the proprietary rights of third parties because numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields that are the focus of our drug discovery, development, and manufacture and process synthesis efforts. Others might have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents and might have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us or our licensors, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, synthesis, commercialization, formulation or use of our product candidates. In addition, the production, manufacture, synthesis, commercialization, formulation or use of our product candidates may infringe existing patents of which we are not aware. Defending ourselves against third-party claims, including litigation in particular, would be costly and time consuming and would divert management’s attention from our business, which could lead to delays in our development or commercialization efforts. If third parties are successful in their claims, we might have to pay substantial damages or take other actions that are adverse to our business. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we might: • be prohibited from selling or licensing any product that we and/or collaborators may develop unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which the patent holder is not required to do; • be required to pay substantial royalties or grant a cross license to our patents to another patent holder; or 36 Table of Contents • be required to redesign the formulation of a product candidate so it does not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. In addition, under our collaboration and license agreement with Ipsen and our exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Merck, Ipsen and Merck may be entitled to offset a portion of any royalties due to us in any calendar year on account of product sales to pay for costs incurred by Ipsen or Merck to obtain a license to any dominant intellectual property rights that are infringed by the products at issue. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates If we or our collaborators are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we or our collaborators will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA, other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us or our collaborators from commercializing the product candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. In addition, we will not receive a substantial majority of the milestone payments provided under our collaboration and license agreement with Ipsen or any royalty payments if Ipsen is unable to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize toremifene within the European Territory. Likewise, we may not receive a majority of the milestone payments or any royalty payments provided for under our exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Merck if Merck is not able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to commercialize any SARM products, including OstarineTM, developed under the collaboration. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. For example, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or the FDA Amendments Act, which was enacted in September 2007, expands the FDA’s authority to regulate drugs throughout the product life cycle, including enhanced authority to require post-approval studies and clinical trials. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities. This new legislation, and the additional proposals if enacted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us or our collaborators to obtain approval of our product candidates. Even if the FDA approves a product candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. The approval may also impose risk evaluation mitigation strategies, or REMS, on a product if the FDA believes there is a reason to monitor the safety of the drug in the market place. REMS may include requirements for additional training for health care professionals, safety communication efforts and limits on channels of distribution, among other things. The sponsor would be required to evaluate and monitor the various REMS activities and adjust them if need be. The FDA also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. Furthermore, the approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval varies among countries and can involve additional testing beyond that required by the FDA. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. For example, we completed our Phase III clinical trial of toremifene 80 mg for the prevention of bone fractures and treatment of other estrogen deficiency side effects of ADT in men with prostate cancer and are conducting our Phase III clinical trial of toremifene 20 mg for the prevention of prostate cancer in high risk men with high grade PIN, under Special Protocol Assessments, or SPAs, with the FDA. A SPA is designed to facilitate the FDA’s review and approval of drug products by allowing the FDA to evaluate the proposed design and size of clinical trials that are intended to form the primary basis for determining a drug product’s efficacy. If agreement is reached with the FDA, a SPA documents the terms and conditions under which the design of the subject trial will be adequate for submission of the efficacy and human safety portion of a NDA. 37 Table of Contents However, there are circumstances under which we may not receive the benefits of a SPA, notably if the FDA subsequently identifies a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the product’s safety or efficacy. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Furthermore, even if we submit an application to the FDA for marketing approval of a product candidate, it may not result in marketing approval from the FDA. We may not receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates that are in development for at least the next several months, if ever. In February 2009, however, we completed an initial step in the approval process in the United States when the FDA accepted for filing our application to market toremifene 80 mg for the prevention of bone fractures in men with prostate cancer on ADT. This acceptance means the application met the FDA’s standards for conducting a full review but does not predict whether the application will be approved or not. Similarly, it is not anticipated that Ipsen will receive the appropriate regulatory approvals to market toremifene within the European Territory any sooner than we will achieve regulatory approval in the United States, and it likely will be thereafter. The inability to obtain FDA approval or approval from comparable authorities in other countries for our product candidates would prevent us or our collaborators from commercializing these product candidates in the United States or other countries. See the section entitled “Business — Government Regulation” under Part I, Item 1 above for additional information regarding risks associated with marketing approval, as well as risks related to post-approval requirements. Risks Related to Commercialization The commercial success of any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop, including our toremifene products, will depend upon the market and the degree of market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the medical community. Any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate material product revenues or receive royalties to the extent we currently anticipate, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • efficacy and safety results in clinical trials; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. As part of our effort to complete the requirements for the submission of applications for regulatory approval of toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg, we have conducted a number of studies of toremifene in addition to our clinical trials, including a Thorough QT study (toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg), a bioequivalence study (toremifene 80 mg) and a series of drug-drug interaction studies (toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg), and are conducting a semen quality study (toremifene 20 mg) to assess the effect of toremifene. The results of the Thorough QT study of 250 healthy male volunteers, with 5 parallel cohorts receiving 20 mg, 80 mg or 300 mg doses of toremifene, moxifloxacin, or placebo, showed that toremifene prolonged the QT interval in a dose dependent manner. The mean change in QTcB (a measurement of QT interval corrected by Bazett’s formula) from baseline relative to placebo for toremifene 20 mg was 5.79 milliseconds, for toremifene 80 mg, it was 22.43 milliseconds, and for moxifloxacin, it was 8.83 milliseconds. Since we market FARESTON® in the United States under a license agreement with Orion, we notified the FDA of the Thorough QT study results and have proposed modifications to the FARESTON® label in the United States. FDA action on the proposed label changes is pending. Separately, Orion recommended label changes to the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA. In January 2009, the EMEA recommended that the FARESTON® label within the European Union reflect that toremifene should not be given to patients at risk of prolonged QT intervals or other certain heart problems. 38 Table of Contents The results of these completed studies have been included as a part of the NDA submission to the FDA for our toremifene 80 mg product candidate for the prevention of bone fractures in men with prostate cancer on ADT and, subject to receipt of favorable results from our ongoing toremifene 20 mg Phase III clinical trial, will be included as a part of the NDA submission for our toremifene 20 mg product candidate for the prevention of prostate cancer in high risk men with high grade PIN, and will be used to update the label for FARESTON®. The study results could lead to the inclusion of restrictions, limitations and/or warnings in the label of FARESTON® or an approved product candidate, which may adversely affect the marketability of the product or limit the patients to whom the product is prescribed. Our only marketed product generating revenue is FARESTON®, which is subject to a number of risks. These risks may cause sales of FARESTON® to continue to decline. FARESTON® is currently our only marketed product. The sales volume of FARESTON® in the United States has been declining, and we anticipate that it will continue to do so. Sales of pharmaceuticals for breast cancer in the SERM class have declined in recent years as aromatase inhibitors have gained market share. We believe that aromatase inhibitors will continue to capture breast cancer market share from SERMs, including from FARESTON®, resulting in a continued decline in FARESTON® sales volume. Continued sales of FARESTON® also could be impacted by many other factors. The occurrence of one or more of the following risks may cause sales of FARESTON® to decline more than we currently anticipate: • the loss of the availability of Orion’s website to market FARESTON®, which is an important source of advertising; • the loss of one or more of our three largest wholesale drug distributors, which together accounted for approximately 96% of our product sales of FARESTON® for the year ended December 31, 2008; • any restrictions, limitations, and/or warnings added to the FARESTON® label as a result of our studies of toremifene, including a Thorough QT study and drug interaction studies, or otherwise; • the continued success of competing products, including aromatase inhibitors; • the loss of coverage or reimbursement for FARESTON® from Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers or other third-party payors; • exposure to product liability claims related to the commercial sale of FARESTON®, which may exceed our product liability insurance; • the failure of Orion to maintain regulatory filings or comply with applicable FDA requirements with respect to FARESTON®; • the ability of third parties to market and sell generic toremifene products that will compete with FARESTON® for the treatment of breast cancer after the composition of matter patents that we license from Orion expire in the United States in September 2009; • the loss of Orion, upon which we rely as a single source, as our supplier of FARESTON®; and • our inability to manufacture FARESTON® until Orion’s patents with respect to the composition of matter of toremifene expire if Orion terminates our license and supply agreement due to our uncured material breach or bankruptcy. If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing capabilities or establish and maintain agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenue from such candidates. We have limited experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There are risks involved with building our own sales and marketing capabilities, as well as entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, building a sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay any launch of a product candidate. We are relying on Ipsen to market and distribute our toremifene product candidates through Ipsen’s established sales and marketing network within the European Territory. If our collaboration and license agreement with Ipsen is terminated for any reason, our ability to sell our toremifene product candidates in the European Territory would be adversely affected, and we may be unable to develop or engage an effective sales force to successfully market and sell our toremifene product candidates in the European Territory. 39 Table of Contents Currently, we do not have a partner outside of the European Territory and our success in regions other than the European Territory may be dependent on our ability to find suitable partners in other regions of the world. Similarly, we are relying on Merck for the commercialization of any SARM products developed under our collaboration with Merck, and if our exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Merck is terminated for any reason, our ability to successfully market and sell any of our SARM product candidates would be adversely affected, and we may be unable to develop or engage an effective sales force to successfully market and sell any SARM products that we may develop, including OstarineTM. In addition, to the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for products we sell at acceptable prices, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Many patients will not be capable of paying for any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop and will rely on Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers and other third-party payors to pay for their medical needs. If third-party payors do not provide coverage or reimbursement for any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability may suffer. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 created a prescription drug benefit program for Medicare recipients. The prescription drug program established by this legislation may have the effect of reducing the prices that we or our collaborators are able to charge for products we and/or our collaborators develop and sell through the program. This legislation may also cause third-party payors other than the federal government, including the states under the Medicaid program, to discontinue coverage for products that we and/or our collaborators may develop or to lower the amount that they pay. In addition, members of the United States Congress have stated their desire to reduce the government’s cost for reimbursements of prescription drugs by amending this legislation. State Medicaid programs generally have outpatient prescription drug coverage, subject to state regulatory restrictions, for the population eligible for Medicaid. The availability of coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased. A primary trend in the United States health care industry is toward cost containment. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we or our collaborators may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in our or our collaborators’ commercialization efforts. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly-approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop or sell. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we or our collaborators may develop or sell, which would result in lower product revenues or royalties payable to us. Another development that may affect the pricing of drugs is proposed congressional action regarding drug reimportation into the United States. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 gives discretion to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to allow drug reimportation into the United States under some circumstances from foreign countries, including countries where the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. Proponents of drug reimportation may attempt to pass legislation which would directly allow reimportation under certain circumstances. If legislation or regulations were passed allowing the reimportation of drugs, they could decrease the price we or our collaborators receive for any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop, negatively affecting our revenues and prospects for profitability. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any product that we may develop. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: 40 Table of Contents • decreased demand for any product candidates or products; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs to defend the related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; • loss of revenue; and • the inability to commercialize any products for which we obtain or hold marketing approvals. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials and commercial products up to a $25 million annual aggregate limit. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products than any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop. In addition, significant delays in the development of our product candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us and impair our or our collaborators’ ability to commercialize our product candidates. Various products are currently marketed or used off-label for some of the diseases and conditions that we are targeting, and a number of companies are or may be developing new treatments. These product uses, as well as promotional efforts by competitors and/or clinical trial results of competitive products, could significantly diminish our or our collaborators’ ability to market and sell any products that we and/or our collaborators may develop. For example, although there are no products that have been approved by the FDA for the prevention of bone fractures and treatment of estrogen deficiency related side effects of ADT, we are aware of a number of drugs marketed by Eli Lilly (Evista®), Merck (Fosamax®), Sanofi-Aventis and Procter & Gamble (Actonel®), Wyeth Pharmaceuticals (Effexor®), Boehringer Ingelheim (Catapres®), Novartis (Zometa®) and Bristol Myers Squibb (Megace®) that are prescribed to treat single side effects of androgen deprivation therapy; that external beam radiation and tamoxifen are used to treat breast pain and enlargement, or gynecomastia; and that Amgen is developing a product candidate for the treatment of osteoporosis in prostate cancer patients. While we have the only pharmaceutical product in clinical development to prevent prostate cancer in high risk men with high grade PIN, GlaxoSmithKline is conducting a Phase III study for Avodart® on prostate cancer prevention in men with elevated prostate specific antigen. Additionally, recent literature has suggested that finasteride may be effective in reducing the risk of prostate cancer progression, and there are nutritional supplement studies (for example, selenium) investigating prostate cancer prevention in men with high grade PIN. Similarly, while there are no drugs that have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of muscle loss from cancer, there are drugs marketed by Steris Laboratories and Savient Pharmaceuticals that are being prescribed off-label for the treatment of some types of muscle loss from cancer. Testosterone and other anabolic agents are used to treat involuntary weight loss in patients who have acute muscle loss. There are other SARM product candidates in development that may compete with our product candidates. Wyeth and Amgen have myostatin inhibitors in development which may compete for similar patients as OstarineTM. This could result in reduced sales and pricing pressure on our product candidates, if approved, which in turn would reduce our ability to generate revenue and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. 41 Table of Contents Risks Related to Employees and Growth If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. If we are not able to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, particularly Dr. Mitchell S. Steiner, we may not be able to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. All of our employees are at-will employees and can terminate their employment at any time. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering members of senior management, other than $25 million of insurance covering Dr. Steiner. We will need to hire additional employees in order to continue our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. Any inability to manage future growth could harm our ability to commercialize our product candidates, increase our costs and adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. In order to continue our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates, we will need to expand the number of our managerial, operational, financial and other employees. We currently anticipate that we will need between 100 and 200 additional employees by the time toremifene 80 mg or toremifene 20 mg is initially commercialized, including approximately 65 sales consultants. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be so in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • adverse results or delays in our clinical trials; • the timing of achievement of our and our collaborators’ clinical, regulatory and other milestones, such as the commencement of clinical development, the completion of a clinical trial or the receipt of regulatory approval; • announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates or delays in the FDA review process; • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates or products, our clinical trials or our sales and marketing activities, including regulatory actions requiring or leading to restrictions, limitations and/or warnings in the label of FARESTON® or an approved product candidate; • the commercial success of any product approved by the FDA or its foreign counterparts; • developments with respect to our collaborations with Ipsen and Merck; • market conditions for equity investments in general, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in particular; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing or other arrangements that we may establish; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; 42 Table of Contents • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit involving us; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • sales of large blocks of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • changes in accounting principles; and • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced significant volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Recently, the financial markets have faced almost unprecedented turmoil, resulting in a decline in investor confidence and concerns about the proper functioning of the securities markets, which decline in general investor confidence has resulted in depressed stock prices for many companies not withstanding the lack of a fundamental change in their underlying business models or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and results of operations and divert management’s attention and resources, which could result in delays of our clinical trials or commercialization efforts. Our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders have the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of January 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 76.5% of our outstanding common stock, and our executive officers and directors alone beneficially owned approximately 47.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: • a classified Board of Directors; • a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors; and • limitations on the removal of directors. 43 Table of Contents Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Finally, these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could drop substantially, even if our business is doing well. For the 12-month period ended December 31, 2008, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was approximately 298,611 shares. As a result, future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had 36,392,443 shares of common stock outstanding. Moreover, J.R. Hyde, III, and Oracle Partners, L.P., two of our largest stockholders, and their affiliates, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the approximately 10.8 million shares of common stock they hold in the aggregate which are subject to registration rights or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. In addition, we filed a registration statement covering the 1,285,347 shares of common stock that we issued to Merck in December 2007. Finally, all shares of common stock that we may issue under our employee benefit plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 