Item 1A. Risk Factors Business Factors. Beginning with the expiration of the liquefied petroleum gas (“LPG”) sales contract between Penn Octane and P.M.I. Trading Limited (“PMI”) on March 31, 2004 and continuing through the contract entered into with PMI effective June 4, 2005 (the “PMI Agreement”) , Rio Vista and Penn Octane have experienced materially lower LPG sales volumes and margins that have adversely affected Rio Vista’s results of operations. Rio Vista has only one customer for LPG in Mexico, PMI. The PMI Agreement has expired. Rio Vista cannot be sure that PMI will continue to purchase LPG from Rio Vista or in quantities or at prices that are profitable. There are a limited number of suppliers of LPG that connect to Rio Vista’s pipelines and a limited supply of LPG. Rio Vista may lose its competitive advantage when Penn Octane’s Seadrift pipeline lease expires in 2013. Rio Vista may be unable to successfully develop additional sources of revenue in order to reduce its dependence on PMI. Rio Vista may not have sufficient cash to meet its obligations. All of Rio Vista’s assets are pledged as collateral for existing debt of Penn Octane, and Rio Vista therefore may be unable to obtain additional financing collateralized by such assets. Rio Vista is at risk of economic loss due to fixed margin contracts. If Rio Vista cannot develop sufficient capital resources for acquisitions or opportunities for expansion, Rio Vista’s growth will be limited. Future acquisitions and expansions may not be successful, may substantially increase Rio Vista’s indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and may create integration difficulties. Rio Vista‘s business would be adversely affected if operations at its transportation, terminal and distribution facilities were interrupted. Rio Vista’s business would also be adversely affected if the operations of Rio Vista’s customers or suppliers (including Penn Octane) were interrupted. Competitive Factors. The energy industry is highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel needs of industrial and individual consumers. Rio Vista competes with other companies in the sale or purchase of LPG as well as the transportation of these products in the U.S. and Mexican markets and employs all methods of competition which are lawful and appropriate for such purposes. A key component of Rio Vista’s competitive position, particularly given the commodity nature of its products, is its ability to manage its expenses successfully, which requires continuous management focus on reducing unit costs and improving efficiency and its ability to secure unique opportunities for the purchase, sale and/or delivery methods of its products. International Factors. Mexican economic, political and social conditions may change and adversely affect Rio Vista’s operations. Rio Vista may not be able to continue operations in Mexico if Mexico restricts the existing ownership structure of its Mexican operations, requiring Rio Vista to increase its reliance on Mexican nationals to conduct its business. The LPG market in Mexico has yet to be deregulated. If deregulation occurs, the results may hinder Rio Vista’s ability to negotiate acceptable contracts with distributors. Rio Vista’s contracts and Mexican business operations are subject to volatility in currency exchange rates which could negatively impact its earnings. Political Factors. The operations and earnings of Rio Vista in the U.S. and Mexico have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degree by political instability and by other political developments and laws and regulations, such as forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of Rio Vista’s facilities; price controls; tax increases and retroactive tax claims; expropriation of property; cancellation of contract rights; and environmental regulations. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon Rio Vista vary greatly and are not predictable. Industry and Economic Factors. The operations and earnings of Rio Vista throughout the U.S. and Mexico are affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for Rio Vista’s products. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things, general economic growth rates and the occurrence of economic recessions; the development of new supply sources for its products; supply disruptions; weather, including seasonal patterns that affect energy demand and severe weather events that can disrupt operations; technological advances, including advances in exploration, production, refining and advances in technology relating to energy usage; changes in demographics, including population growth rates and consumer preferences; and the competitiveness of alternative hydrocarbon or other energy sources or product substitutes. 15 Table of Contents Acquisition Factors. In additional to the factors cited above, the advancement, cost and results of particular acquisitions sought by Rio Vista, including projects which do not specifically fall within the areas of Rio Vista’s current lines of businesses will depend on: the outcome of negotiations for such projects; the ability of Rio Vista’s management to manage such businesses; the ability of Rio Vista to obtain financing for such acquisitions; business integration issues; changes in operating conditions or costs; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. LPG Asset Sale. There can be no assurance that the LPG Asset Sale will be completed according to the terms contained in the PSA’s or according to different terms or at all. Even if the LPG Asset Sale is completed, Rio Vista may be unable to resume payment of minimum quarterly distributions or to pay the arrearages of such distributions, in order to maintain cash reserves necessary for the conduct of business. A continued delay of or inability to close the LPG Asset Sale could have a material adverse effect on Penn Octane’s and Rio Vista’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Market Risk Factors. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this report for discussion of the impact of market risks, inflation and other uncertainties. Internal Control Factors. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the year ended December 31, 2007, Rio Vista’s management is required to complete an annual evaluation of its internal control systems. In addition, Rio Vista’s independent auditors are required to provide an opinion regarding such evaluation and the adequacy of Rio Vista’s internal accounting controls. Rio Vista’s internal controls may be found to be inadequate, deficiencies or weaknesses may be discovered, and remediation may not be successful. If Rio Vista acquires an existing business, the internal control systems of the acquired business may be inadequate and may require additional strengthening. Projections. Projections, estimates and descriptions of Rio Vista’s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 7 and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results could differ materially due to, among other things, the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Inapplicable. Item 