RISK FACTORS RISK RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS DUE TO THE NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS, WE DO NOT HAVE SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS OF RECURRING REVENUES FROM OUR EXISTING CUSTOMERS AND WE ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT. Most of our revenues derive from the installation of security and surveillance systems which are generally non-recurring. Our customers are mainly governmental entities, non-profit organizations and commercial entities, such as airports, customs agencies, hotels, real estate developments, banks, mines, railways, supermarkets, and entertainment enterprises. We manufacture and install security systems for these customers and generate revenues from the sale of these systems to our customers and, to a lesser extent, from maintenance of these systems for our customers. After we have manufactured and installed a system at any particular customer site, we have generated the majority of revenues from that particular client. We would not expect to generate significant revenues from any existing client in future years unless that client has additional installation sites for which our services might be required. Therefore, in order to maintain a level of revenues each year that is at or in excess of the level of revenues we generated in prior years, we must identify and be retained by new clients. If our business development, marketing and sales techniques do not result in an equal or greater number of projects of at least comparable size and value for us in a given year compared to the prior year, then we may be unable to increase our revenues and earnings or even sustain current levels in the future. -10- IN ORDER TO GROW AT THE PACE EXPECTED BY MANAGEMENT, WE WILL REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO SUPPORT OUR LONG-TERM BUSINESS PLAN. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN FUTURE YEARS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROCEED WITH OUR LONG-TERM BUSINESS PLAN AND WE MAY BE FORCED TO CURTAIL OR CEASE OUR OPERATIONS. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance the overall productivity and benefit from economies of scale. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS IN PART ON ATTRACTING AND RETAINING KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND QUALIFIED TECHNICAL AND SALES PERSONNEL. Our future success depends in part on the contributions of our management team and key technical and sales personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified new personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continuing employment of our CEO, Mr. Guoshen Tu; our CFO, Terence Yap; our Chief Technical Officer, Dr. Yong Zhao; our Chief Operating Officer, Shufang Yang; our Vice President, Jianguo Jiang; and our Vice President, Lingfeng Xiong. There is significant competition in our industry for qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key senior managerial, technical and sales personnel or that we will be able to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that we may require in the future. We also cannot assure that our employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. OUR GROWTH STRATEGY INCLUDES MAKING ACQUISITIONS IN THE FUTURE, WHICH COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT RISKS, ANY OF WHICH COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our growth strategy includes identifying and acquiring or investing in suitable candidates on acceptable terms. We recently acquired the security and surveillance business of the Four-Related Companies and acquired a 100% ownership interest in Cheng Feng. We also expect to close the acquisitions of Shenzhen Hongtianzhi Electronics Co., Ltd., or “Hongtianzhi,” and HiEasy Electronic Technology Development Co., Ltd., or “HiEasy,” and establish an exclusive cooperation relationship with Shenzhen Chuang Guan Intelligence Network Technology Co., Ltd., or “Chuang Guan,” in 2007. In addition, over time, we may acquire or make investments in other providers of products that complement our business and other companies in the security industry. -11- Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · diversion of management’s attention from running our existing business; · increased expenses, including travel, legal, administrative and compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; · increased costs to integrate personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with our own; · adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill associated with acquisitions; · potential disputes with sellers of acquired businesses, technologies, services, products and potential liabilities; and · dilution to our earnings per share if we issue common stock in any acquisition. Moreover, performance problems with an acquired business, technology, product or service could also have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. In addition, any acquired business, technology, product or service could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisitions. For all of these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition and investment strategy or any individual acquisition or investment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR LIMITED ABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. A successful challenge to the ownership of our technology could materially damage our business prospects. Our competitors may assert that our technologies or products infringe on their patents or proprietary rights. We may be required to obtain from others licenses that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Problems with intellectual property rights could increase the cost of our products or delay or preclude our new product development and commercialization. If infringement claims against us are deemed valid, we may not be able to obtain appropriate licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation could be costly and time-consuming but may be necessary to protect our technology license positions or to defend against infringement claims. WE SOMETIMES EXTEND CREDIT TO OUR CUSTOMERS. FAILURE TO COLLECT THE TRADE RECEIVABLES OR UNTIMELY COLLECTION COULD AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY. We extend credit to a large number of our customers while generally requiring no collateral. Generally, our customers pay in installments, with a portion of the payment upfront, a portion of the payment upon receipt of our products by our customers and before the installation, and a portion of the payment after the installation of our products and upon satisfaction of our customer. Sometimes, a small portion of the payment will not be paid until after a certain period following the installation. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and generally have no difficulties in collecting our payments. However, if we encounter future problems collecting amounts due from our clients or if we experience delays in the collection of amounts due from our clients, our liquidity could be negatively affected. -12- IF OUR SUBCONTRACTORS FAIL TO PERFORM THEIR CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS, OUR ABILITY TO PROVIDE SERVICES AND PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, AS WELL AS OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FUTURE BUSINESS, MAY BE HARMED. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by those subcontractors. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations to our customers, could expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. SAFETECH IS A BVI COMPANY, WHILE GOLDEN AND CHENG FENG ARE PRC COMPANIES, AND ALL OF OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS RESIDE OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. THEREFORE, CERTAIN JUDGMENTS OBTAINED AGAINST OUR COMPANY BY OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY NOT BE ENFORCEABLE IN THE BVI OR CHINA. Safetech is a BVI company and our operating subsidiaries Golden and Cheng Feng are PRC companies. All of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. All or substantially all of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our Company or such persons or to enforce against it or these persons the United States federal securities laws, or to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY SEASONALITY AFFECTS OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Our sales are affected by seasonality. Our revenues are usually higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year because fewer projects are undertaken during and around the Chinese spring festival. OUR SUCCESS RELIES ON OUR MANAGEMENT’S ABILITY TO UNDERSTAND THE HIGHLY EVOLVING SURVEILLANCE AND SECURITY INDUSTRY. The Chinese surveillance and security industry is nascent and rapidly evolving. Therefore, it is critical that our management is able to understand industry trends and make good strategic business decisions. If our management is unable to identify industry trends and act in response to such trends in a way that is beneficial to us, our business will suffer. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RESPOND TO THE RAPID CHANGES IN OUR INDUSTRY AND CHANGES IN OUR CUSTOMERS’ REQUIREMENTS AND PREFERENCES, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. If we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could lose customers and market share. The electronic security systems industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Sudden changes in customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing products, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of products and services in the electronic security systems industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: -13- · enhance our existing products and services; · anticipate changing customer requirements by designing, developing, and launching new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of additional products and services involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. If we fail to introduce products with new technologies in a timely manner, or adapt our products to these new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that even if we are able to introduce new products or adapt our products to new technologies that our products will gain acceptance among our customers. In addition, from time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technological innovations that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing products and that may cause customers to refrain from purchasing our existing products, resulting in inventory obsolescence. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OR IMPROVE OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION BECAUSE OF STRONG COMPETITION IN THE SECURITY AND SURVEILLANCE INDUSTRY, AND WE EXPECT THIS COMPETITION TO CONTINUE TO INTENSIFY. The Chinese security and surveillance industry is highly competitive. There are about 15,000 companies in China that engage in the business of manufacturing, designing and building surveillance and security products. In addition, since China joined the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), we also face competition from international competitors. Some of our international competitors are larger than us and possess greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products and services that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and services and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because they have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition could require us to reduce our prices, result in our receiving fewer customer orders, and result in our loss of market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to distinguish ourselves in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. OUR BUSINESS AND REPUTATION AS A MANUFACTURER OF HIGH QUALITY SECURITY AND SURVEILLANCE PRODUCTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY PRODUCT DEFECTS OR SUBSTANDARD PERFORMANCE. We believe that we offer high quality products that are reliable and competitively priced. If our products do not perform to specifications, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. In addition, product defects could result in substantial product liability. We do not have product liability insurance. If we face significant liability claims, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. -14- OUR PRODUCT OFFERINGS INVOLVE A LENGTHY SALES CYCLE AND WE MAY NOT ANTICIPATE SALES LEVELS APPROPRIATELY, WHICH COULD IMPAIR OUR PROFITABILITY. Some of our products and services are designed for medium to large commercial, industrial and government facilities desiring to protect valuable assets and/or prevent intrusion into high security facilities in China. Given the nature of our products and the customers that purchase them, sales cycles can be lengthy as customers conduct intensive investigations and deliberate between competing technologies and providers. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with some of our products and services is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. If sales in any period fall significantly below anticipated levels, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA ECONOMIC, POLITICAL, LEGAL AND SOCIAL UNCERTAINTIES IN CHINA COULD HARM OUR FUTURE INTERESTS IN CHINA. All of our future business projects and plans are expected to be located in China. As a consequence, the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The legislative trend in China over the past decade has been to enhance the protection afforded to foreign investment and to allow for more active control by foreign parties of foreign invested enterprises. There can be no assurance, however, that legislation directed towards promoting foreign investment will continue. More restrictive rules on foreign investment could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations in China or repatriate any profits earned there. Some of the changes that could adversely affect us include: · level of government involvement in the economy; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; · balance of payments position; · international trade restrictions; and · international conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. THE LEGAL ENVIRONMENT IN CHINA IS UNCERTAIN AND YOUR ABILITY TO LEGALLY PROTECT YOUR INVESTMENT COULD BE LIMITED. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign-owned enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, on March 16, 2007, PRC adopted new property and corporate income tax laws, and the implications of these new laws are uncertain as of the date of this report. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign-invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the United States, or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons. -15- THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT EXERTS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER THE MANNER IN WHICH WE MUST CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy, or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. FUTURE INFLATION IN CHINA MAY INHIBIT OUR ACTIVITY TO CONDUCT BUSINESS IN CHINA. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and widely fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPLETE A BUSINESS COMBINATION TRANSACTION EFFECTIVELY OR ON FAVORABLE TERMS DUE TO COMPLICATED MERGER AND ACQUISITION REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTED ON SEPTEMBER 8, 2006. On September 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or “MOFCOM,” together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations governing the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside of the PRC. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the governmental agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Governmental approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the governmental agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government now can exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to these new regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The new regulations allow PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to MOFCOM and the other government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulations also limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulations may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms which satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests and we may not be able to negotiate a business combination transaction on terms favorable to our stockholders. -16- In addition to the above risks, in many instances, we will seek to structure transactions in a manner that avoids the need to make applications or a series of applications with Chinese regulatory authorities under these M&A regulations. If we fail to effectively structure an acquisition in a manner that avoids the need for such applications or if the Chinese government interprets the requirements of the M&A regulations in a manner different from our understanding of such regulations, then acquisitions that we have effected may be unwound or subject to rescission. Also, if the Chinese government determines that our structure of any of our acquisitions does not comply with these new regulations, then we may also be subject to fines and penalties. RESTRICTIONS ON CURRENCY EXCHANGE MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RECEIVE AND USE OUR REVENUES EFFECTIVELY. The majority of our revenues will be settled in RMB, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, and only at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB. THE VALUE OF OUR SECURITIES WILL BE AFFECTED BY THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE BETWEEN THE U.S. DOLLARS AND RENMINBI. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operational needs, should the RMB appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of our Company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes, should the U.S. dollar appreciate against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. ACCOUNTING LAWS IN CHINA MANDATE ACCOUNTING PRACTICES WHICH MAY NOT BE CONSISTENT WITH U.S. GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND THEREFORE OUR FINANCIALS AND THEIR INTERPRETATION INVOLVE UNCERTAINTIES. The PRC accounting laws require an annual “statutory audit” to be performed in accordance with PRC accounting standards and the books of foreign invested enterprises to be maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. These Chinese accounting practices which may not be consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Article 14 of the PRC Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a wholly foreign-owned enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities. Noncompliance with such requirements may cause revocation of our business license. The translation of the financial statements from the requirements of the PRC to US GAAP, requires interpretation and exercise of judgment. -17- RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK OUR COMMON STOCK IS CURRENTLY QUOTED ONLY ON THE OTC BULLETIN BOARD, WHICH MAY HAVE AN UNFAVORABLE IMPACT ON STOCK PRICE AND LIQUIDITY. Our common stock is quoted only on the OTCBB. The OTCBB is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ system. The quotation of our shares on the OTCBB may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of the common stock, could depress the trading price of the common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS OR DELAWARE LAW MIGHT DISCOURAGE, DELAY OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY OR CHANGES IN ITS MANAGEMENT AND, THEREFORE DEPRESS THE TRADING PRICE OF THE COMMON STOCK. Delaware corporate law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in its management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: – deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors; – any stockholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of stockholders must comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; and – any vacancy on the board of directors, however the vacancy occurs, may only be filled by the directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally limits our ability to engage in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirors at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. -18- ITEM 