Item 1A. Risk Factors Business Factors. Beginning with the Restated LPG Asset Sale, Rio Vista is solely dependent on the LPG Transportation Business and income on invested cash assets, if any, to provide revenues. Rio Vista can only transport LPG on behalf of TransMontaigne using the Retained Assets. TransMontaigne may not transport LPG volumes utilizing the Retained Assets in volumes that are profitable and/or sufficient for Rio Vista to make future distributions to its unitholders. Rio Vista may be unable to successfully develop additional sources of revenue in order to reduce its dependence on TransMontaigne. All of Rio Vista’s assets are pledged as collateral for existing debt of Penn Octane, and Rio Vista therefore may be unable to obtain additional financing collateralized by such assets. If Rio Vista cannot develop sufficient capital resources for acquisitions or opportunities for expansion, Rio Vista’s growth will be limited. Future acquisitions and expansions may not be successful, may substantially increase Rio Vista’s indebtedness and contingent liabilities, and may create integration difficulties. Rio Vista’s business would be adversely affected if operations at its transportation, terminal and distribution facilities were interrupted. Acquisition Factors. The advancement, cost and results of particular acquisitions sought by Rio Vista, including projects and/or acquisitions which do not specifically fall within the areas of Rio Vista’s current lines of businesses will depend on: the outcome of negotiations for such projects and/or acquisitions; the ability of Rio Vista’s management to manage such businesses; the ability of Rio Vista to obtain financing for such acquisitions; business integration issues; changes in operating conditions or costs; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties. Competitive Factors. The energy industry is highly competitive. There is competition within the industries and also with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel needs of industrial and individual consumers. A key component of Rio Vista’s competitive position, particularly given the nature of its assets deployed in the LPG Transportation Business, is its ability to manage its expenses successfully, which requires continuous management focus on reducing costs and improving efficiency. International Factors. Mexican economic, political and social conditions may change and adversely affect Rio Vista’s operations. Rio Vista may not be able to continue operations in Mexico if Mexico restricts the existing ownership structure of its Mexican operations, requiring Rio Vista to increase its reliance on Mexican nationals to conduct its business. The LPG market in Mexico has yet to be deregulated. Upon deregulation Rio Vista will still be dependent on TransMontaigne because Rio Vista can only transport LPG on behalf of TransMontaigne using the Retained Assets. Rio Vista has not predicted the effect of deregulation on Rio Vista. Rio Vista’s contracts and Mexican business operations are subject to volatility in currency exchange rates which could negatively impact its earnings. Political Factors. The operations and earnings of Rio Vista in the U.S. and Mexico have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degree by political instability and by other political developments and laws and regulations, such as forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of Rio Vista’s facilities; price controls; tax increases and retroactive tax claims; expropriation of property; cancellation of contract rights; and environmental regulations. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon Rio Vista vary greatly and are not predictable. Industry and Economic Factors. The operations and earnings of Rio Vista throughout the U.S. and Mexico are affected by local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for Rio Vista’s services. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things, general economic growth rates and the occurrence of economic recessions; the development of new supply sources for its products; supply disruptions; weather, including seasonal patterns that affect energy demand and severe weather events that can disrupt operations; technological advances, including advances in exploration, production, refining and advances in technology relating to energy usage; changes in demographics, including population growth rates and consumer preferences; and the competitiveness of alternative hydrocarbon or other energy sources or product substitutes. 13 Table of Contents Market Risk Factors. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this report for discussion of the impact of market risks, inflation and other uncertainties. Internal Control Factors. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the year ending December 31, 2007, Rio Vista’s management is required to complete an annual evaluation of its internal control systems. In addition, Rio Vista’s independent auditors are required to provide an opinion regarding such evaluation and the adequacy of Rio Vista’s internal accounting controls for the year ending December 31, 2008. Rio Vista’s internal controls may be found to be inadequate, deficiencies or weaknesses may be discovered, and remediation may not be successful. If Rio Vista acquires an existing business, the internal control systems of the acquired business may be inadequate and may require additional strengthening. Projections. Projections, estimates and descriptions of Rio Vista’s plans and objectives included or incorporated in Items 1, 7 and 7A of this report are forward-looking statements. Actual future results could differ materially due to, among other things, the factors discussed above and elsewhere in this report. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Inapplicable. 