Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other periodic statements we make. If we cannot obtain external financing, we may be unable to fund our operations. Our business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate. Our cash requirements will increase if our lease originations increase. We historically have obtained a substantial amount of the cash required for operations through a variety of external financing sources, such as borrowings under a revolving bank facility, along with financing of leases through commercial paper (“CP”) conduit warehouse facilities, a long-term loan facility and term note securitizations. A failure to renew and increase the funding availability under our existing facilities or to add new funding facilities could affect our ability to fund and originate new leases. An inability to complete term note securitizations or similar funding facilities would also negatively impact our ability to originate and service new leases. Our ability to complete CP conduit transactions and term note securitizations, as well as our ability to obtain renewals of lenders’ commitments and new funding facilities, is affected by a number of factors, including: • conditions in the securities and asset-backed securities markets; • conditions in the market for commercial bank liquidity support for CP programs; • compliance of our leases with the eligibility requirements established in connection with our CP conduit warehouse facility and term note securitizations, including the level of lease delinquencies and defaults; and • our ability to service the leases. 18 Table of Contents We are and will continue to be dependent upon the availability of credit from these external financing sources to continue to originate leases and to satisfy our other working capital needs. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, as a result of prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time, including the presence of covenants or other restrictions under existing financing arrangements. If any or all of our funding sources become unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, we may not have access to the financing necessary to conduct our business, which would limit our ability to fund our operations. Other than our long-term loan facility which matures on October 9, 2012, we do not have long-term commitments from any of our current funding sources. As a result, we may be unable to continue to access these or other funding sources. (See Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7). In the event we seek to obtain equity financing, our shareholders may experience dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity securities. This dilution may be significant depending upon the amount of equity securities that we issue and the prices at which we issue such securities. Our financing sources impose covenants, restrictions and default provisions on us, which could lead to termination of our financing facilities, acceleration of amounts outstanding under our financing facilities and our removal as servicer. The legal agreements relating to our CP conduit warehouse facility, our long-term loan facility and our term note securitizations contain numerous covenants, restrictions and default provisions relating to, among other things, maximum lease delinquency and default levels, a minimum net worth requirement, an interest coverage test and a maximum debt to equity ratio. In addition, a change in the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer is an event of default under the long-term loan facility and CP conduit warehouse facility, unless we hire a replacement acceptable to our lenders within 120 days. A merger or consolidation with another company in which we are not the surviving entity, likewise, is an event of default under our financing facilities. The Company’s long-term loan facility contains an acceleration clause allowing the creditor to accelerate the scheduled maturities of the obligation under certain conditions that may not be objectively determinable (for example, “if a material adverse change occurs”). Further, our long-term loan facility and CP conduit warehouse facility contain cross default provisions whereby certain defaults under one facility would also be an event of default under the other facilities. An event of default under the CP conduit warehouse facility or the long-term loan facility could result in termination of further funds being made available. An event of default under any of our facilities could result in an acceleration of amounts outstanding under the facilities, foreclosure on all or a portion of the leases financed by the facilities and/or our removal as a servicer of the leases financed by the facility. This would reduce our revenues from servicing and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under the financing facilities until the lenders have been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow. If we inaccurately assess the creditworthiness of our end user customers, we may experience a higher number of lease defaults, which may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing and reduce our earnings. We specialize in leasing equipment to small businesses. Small businesses may be more vulnerable than large businesses to economic downturns, typically depend upon the management talents and efforts of one person or a small group of persons and often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete. Small business leases, therefore, may entail a greater risk of delinquencies and defaults than leases entered into with larger, more creditworthy leasing customers. In addition, there is typically only limited publicly available financial and other information about small businesses and they often do not have audited financial statements. Accordingly, in making credit decisions, our underwriting guidelines rely upon the accuracy of information about these small businesses obtained from the small business owner and/or third-party sources, such as credit reporting agencies. If the information we obtain from small business owners and/or third- party sources is incorrect, our ability to make appropriate credit decisions will be impaired. If we inaccurately assess the creditworthiness of our end user customers, we may experience a higher number of lease defaults and related decreases in our earnings. Defaulted leases and certain delinquent leases also do not qualify as collateral against which initial advances may be made under our funding facilities, and we cannot include them in our term note securitizations. An increase in delinquencies or lease defaults could reduce the funding available to us under our facilities and could adversely affect our earnings, possibly materially. In addition, increasing rates of delinquencies or charge-offs could result in adverse changes in the structure of our future financing facilities, including increased interest rates payable to investors and the imposition of more burdensome covenants and credit enhancement requirements. Any of these occurrences may cause us to experience reduced earnings. 19 Table of Contents Deteriorated economic or business conditions may lead to greater than anticipated lease defaults and credit losses, which could limit our ability to obtain additional financing and reduce our operating income. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months at unprecedented levels. In many cases, these markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices of, and credit availability to, certain companies without regard to those companies’ underlying financial strength. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining U.S. real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the capital and credit markets. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and national recession. These events and the continuing market upheavals, may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of extreme and prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Our operating income may be reduced by various economic factors and business conditions, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate. Delinquencies and credit losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Because we extend credit primarily to small businesses, many of our customers may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to make scheduled lease payments during these periods. Therefore, to the extent that economic activity or business conditions deteriorate, our delinquencies and credit losses may increase. Unfavorable economic conditions may also make it more difficult for us to maintain both our new lease origination volume and the credit quality of new leases at levels previously attained. Unfavorable economic conditions could also increase our funding costs or operating cost structure, limit our access to the securitization and other capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Any of these events could reduce our operating income. If losses from leases exceed our allowance for credit losses, our operating income will be reduced or eliminated. In connection with our financing of leases, we record an allowance for credit losses to provide for estimated losses. Our allowance for credit losses is based on, among other things, past collection experience, industry data, lease delinquency data and our assessment of prospective collection risks. Determining the appropriate level of the allowance is an inherently uncertain process and therefore our determination of this allowance may prove to be inadequate to cover losses in connection with our portfolio of leases. Factors that could lead to the inadequacy of our allowance may include our inability to manage collections effectively, unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or discrete events adversely affecting specific leasing customers, industries or geographic areas. Losses in excess of our allowance for credit losses would cause us to increase our provision for credit losses, reducing or eliminating our operating income. If we are unable to effectively execute our business strategy, we may suffer material operating losses. Our financial position, liquidity, and results of operations depend on management’s ability to execute our business strategy and navigate through the ongoing challenging economic environment. Key factors involved in the execution of this strategy include achieving the desired volume of leases of suitable yield and credit quality, effectively managing those leases and obtaining appropriate funding. Accomplishing such a result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of our marketing capabilities, our management of the leasing process, our credit underwriting guidelines, our ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient servicing to our end user customers, our ability to execute effective credit risk management and collection techniques, our access to financing sources on acceptable terms and our ability to attract and retain high quality employees in all areas of our business. Failure to manage effectively these and other factors related to our business strategy and our overall operations may cause us to suffer material operating losses. If we cannot effectively compete within the equipment leasing industry, we may be unable to increase our revenues or maintain our current levels of operations. The business of small-ticket equipment leasing is highly fragmented and competitive. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. A lower cost of funds could enable a competitor to offer leases with yields that are lower than those we use to price our leases, potentially forcing us to decrease our yields or lose origination volume. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to establish more origination source and end user customer relationships 20 Table of Contents and increase their market share. There are few barriers to entry with respect to our business and, therefore, new competitors could enter the business of small-ticket equipment leasing at any time. The companies that typically provide financing for large-ticket or middle-market transactions could begin competing with us on small-ticket equipment leases. If this occurs, or we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, we may be unable to sustain our operations at their current levels or generate revenue growth. If we cannot maintain our relationships with origination sources, our ability to generate lease transactions and related revenues may be significantly impeded. We have formed relationships with thousands of origination sources, comprised primarily of independent equipment dealers. We rely on these relationships to generate lease applications and originations. Most of these relationships are not formalized in written agreements and those that are formalized by written agreements are typically terminable at will. Our typical relationship does not commit the origination source to provide a minimum number of lease transactions to us nor does it require the origination source to direct all of its lease transactions to us. The decision by a significant number of our origination sources to refer their leasing transactions to another company could impede our ability to generate lease transactions and related revenues. If interest rates change significantly, we may be subject to higher interest costs on future term note securitizations and we may be unable to hedge our variable-rate borrowings effectively, which may cause us to suffer material losses. Because our strategy is to fund our leases through bank deposits, a long-term loan facility and term note securitizations, our margins could be reduced by an increase in interest rates. Each of our leases is structured so that the sum of all scheduled lease payments will equal the cost of the equipment to us, less the residual, plus a return on the amount of our investment. This return is known as the yield. The yield on our leases is fixed because the scheduled payments are fixed at the time of lease origination. When we originate or acquire leases, we base our pricing in part on the spread we expect to achieve between the yield on each lease and the effective interest rate we expect to pay when we finance the lease. To the extent that a lease is financed with variable-rate funding, increases in interest rates during the term of a lease could narrow or eliminate the spread, or result in a negative spread. A negative spread is an interest cost greater than the yield on the lease. Certain of our funding facilities have variable rates based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”), prime rate or commercial paper interest rates. As a result, because our assets have a fixed interest rate, increases in LIBOR, prime rate or commercial paper interest rates would negatively impact our earnings. If interest rates increase faster than we are able to adjust the pricing under our new leases, our net interest margin would be reduced. As required under our financing facility agreement, we enter into interest-rate cap agreements to hedge against the risk of interest rate increases in our CP conduit warehouse facility. If our hedging strategies are imperfectly implemented or if a counterparty defaults on a hedging agreement, we could suffer losses relating to our hedging activities. In addition, with respect to our fixed-rate borrowings, such as our term note securitizations, increases in interest rates could have the effect of increasing our borrowing costs on future term note transactions. Further increase in the FDIC deposit insurance premium may have a significant financial impact on us. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. Recent difficult economic conditions have increased actual bank failures and expectations for future bank failures. In the event of a bank failure, the FDIC takes control of a failed bank and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits (which have recently been increased) using the resources of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC is required by law to maintain adequate funding of the Deposit Insurance Fund, and the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain such funding. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC determined that it would assess higher rates for institutions that relied significantly on secured liabilities or on brokered deposits but, for well-managed and well-capitalized banks, only when accompanied by rapid asset growth. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis-point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 13-quarter prepayment of FDIC premiums due on December 30, 2009. Although we paid the prepayment when due on December 30, 2009, the FDIC may further increase our premiums or impose additional assessments or prepayment requirements on us in the future. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings 21 Table of Contents and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board. An important function of the Federal Reserve Board is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of bank holding companies in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted. The departure of any of our key management personnel or our inability to hire suitable replacements for our management may result in defaults under our financing facilities, which could restrict our ability to access funding and operate our business effectively. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. A change in the Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Officer is an event of default under our long-term loan facility and CP conduit warehouse facility, unless we hire a replacement acceptable to our lenders within 120 days. The termination or interruption of, or a decrease in volume under, our property insurance program would cause us to experience lower revenues and may result in a significant reduction in our net income. Our end user customers are required to obtain all-risk property insurance for the replacement value of the leased equipment. The end user customer has the option of either delivering a certificate of insurance listing us as loss payee under a commercial property policy issued by a third-party insurer or satisfying their insurance obligation through our insurance program. Under our program, the end user customer purchases coverage under a master property insurance policy written by a national third-party insurer (our “primary insurer”) with whom our captive insurance subsidiary, AssuranceOne, Ltd., has entered into a 100% reinsurance arrangement. Termination or interruption of our program could occur for a variety of reasons, including: 1) adverse changes in laws or regulations affecting our primary insurer or AssuranceOne, Ltd.; 2) a change in the financial condition or financial strength ratings of our primary insurer or AssuranceOne, Ltd.; 3) negative developments in the loss reserves or future loss experience of AssuranceOne, Ltd., which render it uneconomical for us to continue the program; 4) termination or expiration of the reinsurance agreement with our primary insurer, coupled with an inability by us to identify quickly and negotiate an acceptable arrangement with a replacement carrier; 5) competitive factors in the property insurance market; or 6) failure of the Company to become a financial holding company within two years of its approval as a bank holding company, thereby requiring the Company to terminate its insurance operations given they are impermissible activities under the Bank Holding Company Act. If there is a termination or interruption of this program or if fewer end user customers elected to satisfy their insurance obligations through our program, we would experience lower revenues and our net income may be reduced. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could result in significant financial losses and may require us to alter our business strategy and operations. Laws or regulations may be adopted with respect to our equipment leases, the equipment leasing, telemarketing and collection processes or the banking industry. Any new legislation or regulation, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, that affect the equipment leasing industry or the banking industry could increase our costs of compliance or require us to alter our business strategy. We, like other finance companies, face the risk of litigation, including class action litigation, and regulatory investigations and actions in connection with our business activities. These matters may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could cause us to suffer significant costs and expenses, and could require us to alter our business strategy and the manner in which we operate our business. Government regulation significantly affects our business. The banking industry is heavily regulated, and such regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds, not shareholders. As of January 13, 2009, as a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and subject to the Bank Holding Company Act. Our bank subsidiary, MBB, is also subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board and is subject to regulation by the State of Utah. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth. The financial crisis of 2008 22 Table of Contents and 2009 has resulted in U.S. government and regulatory agencies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. The U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale by temporarily enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances and increasing insurance on bank deposits, among other things. These programs have subjected financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of compensation, interest rates and financial product offerings and disclosures, among other things. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Such proposed changes in laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may limit the manner in which we may conduct our business. Such changes may adversely affect us, including our ability to make loans and leases, and may also result in the imposition of additional costs on us. Failure to realize the projected value of residual interests in equipment we finance would reduce the residual value of equipment recorded as assets on our balance sheet and may reduce our operating income. We estimate the residual value of the equipment which is recorded as an asset on our balance sheet. Realization of residual values depends on numerous factors including: the general market conditions at the time of expiration of the lease; the cost of comparable new equipment; the obsolescence of the leased equipment; any unusual or excessive wear and tear on or damage to the equipment; the effect of any additional or amended government regulations; and the foreclosure by a secured party of our interest in a defaulted lease. Our failure to realize our recorded residual values would reduce the residual value of equipment recorded as assets on our balance sheet and may reduce our operating income. If we experience significant telecommunications or technology downtime, our operations would be disrupted and our ability to generate operating income could be negatively impacted. Our business depends in large part on our telecommunications and information management systems. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer systems, telecommunications equipment or software systems, through casualty or operating malfunction, could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our ability to service our customers and lead to significant declines in our operating income. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our operating results may differ from quarter to quarter, and these differences may be significant. Factors that may cause these differences include: changes in the volume of lease applications, approvals and originations; changes in interest rates; the timing of term note securitizations; the availability and cost of capital and funding; the degree of competition we face; the levels of charge-offs we incur; general economic conditions and other factors. In addition, by discontinuing hedge accounting effective July 1, 2008, any subsequent changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, including those that had previously been accounted for under hedge accounting, is recognized immediately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. This change creates volatility in our results of operations, as the market value of our derivatives may change over time, and this volatility may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. These changes in value are based on the values of the derivative contracts as of the dates reported in a volatile market that changes daily, and will not necessarily reflect the value at settlement. The results of any one quarter may not indicate what our performance may be in the future. Our common stock price is volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services companies; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of market analysts; 23 Table of Contents • investor perceptions of the equipment leasing industry in general and our company in particular; • the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; • legislative and regulatory changes with respect to the financial industry; • general economic conditions and trends; • major catastrophic events; • loss of external funding sources; • sales of large blocks of our stock or sales by insiders; or • departures of key personnel. It is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of financial market analysts and investors and, as a result of these and other factors, the price of our common stock may decline. Future sales of our common stock by a certain large shareholder could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A substantial number of shares of our common stock could be sold into the public market pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-128329) that became effective on December 19, 2005. As of February 1, 2010, this large shareholder owned 2,309,934 shares of our common stock. The sale of all or a portion of these shares into the public market, or the perception that such a sale could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions and our right to issue preferred stock could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. We are a Pennsylvania corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Pennsylvania law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain certain other provisions that would make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, including a provision that our board of directors may issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 