ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business and financial condition and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report. Future terrorist attacks may have a material adverse impact on our business. Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, passenger traffic on commercial flights was significantly lower than prior to the attacks and many commercial airlines reduced their operating schedules. Overall, the terrorist attacks resulted in billions of dollars in losses to the airline industry. Any future acts of terrorism and any military response to such acts could result in further acts of terrorism and additional hostilities, including possible retaliatory attacks on sovereign nations, as well as financial, economic and political instability. While the precise effects of any such terrorist attack, military response or instability on our industry and our business is difficult to determine, it could result in further reductions in the use of commercial aircraft. If demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, demand for certain of our products would also decrease. Our business is sensitive to the number of flight hours that our customers’ planes spend aloft, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and our customers’ profitability. These items are, in turn, affected by general economic conditions. Our business is directly affected by, among other factors, changes in revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, the size and age of the worldwide aircraft fleet and, to a lesser extent, changes in the profitability of the commercial airline industry. Revenue passenger miles and airline profitability have historically been correlated with the general economic environment, although national and international events also play a key role. For example, RPMs declined primarily as a result of increased security concerns among airline customers following the events of September 11, 2001. In addition to the events of September 11, 2001, in recent years, the airline industry has been severely affected by the downturn in the global economy, higher fuel prices, the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, epidemic and the conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq. As a result of the substantial reduction in airline traffic resulting from these events, the airline industry incurred, and some in the industry continue to incur, large losses and financial difficulties. Some carriers have also parked or retired a portion of their fleets and have reduced workforces and flights. During periods of reduced airline profitability, some airlines may delay purchases of spare parts, preferring instead to deplete existing inventories. If demand for new aircraft and spare parts decreases, there would be a decrease in demand for certain of our products. Our sales to manufacturers of large aircraft are cyclical, and a downturn in sales to these manufacturers may adversely affect us. Our sales to manufacturers of large commercial aircraft, which accounted for approximately 15% of our net sales in fiscal year 2006, have historically experienced periodic downturns. In the past, these sales have been affected by airline profitability, which is impacted by, among other things, fuel and labor costs, price competition, downturns in the global economy and national and international events, such as the events of September 11, 2001. Prior downturns have adversely affected our net sales, gross margin and net income. We rely heavily on certain customers for much of our sales. Our two largest customers for fiscal year 2006 were Honeywell International Inc. and Aviall, Inc. (a distributor of commercial aftermarket parts to airlines throughout the world). These customers accounted for approximately 10% and 9%, respectively, of our net sales in fiscal year 2006. Our top ten customers for fiscal year 2006 accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview.” 8 Table of Contents We generally do not have guaranteed future sales of our products. Further, when we enter into fixed price contracts with some of our customers, we take the risk for cost overruns. As is customary in our business, we do not generally have long-term contracts with most of our aftermarket customers and, therefore, do not have guaranteed future sales. Although we have long-term contracts with many of our OEM customers, some of those customers may terminate the contracts on short notice and, in many other cases, our customers have not committed to buy any minimum quantity of our products. In addition, in certain cases, we must anticipate the future volume of orders based upon the historic purchasing patterns of customers and upon our discussions with customers as to their anticipated future requirements, and this anticipated future volume of orders may not materialize. We also have entered into multi-year, fixed-price contracts with some of our OEM customers, pursuant to which we have agreed to perform the work for a fixed price and, accordingly, realize all the benefit or detriment resulting from any decreases or increases in the costs for making these products. Sometimes we accept a fixed-price contract for a product that we have not yet produced, and the fact that we have not yet produced the product increases the risk of cost overruns or delays in the completion of the design and manufacturing of the product. Most of our contracts do not permit us to recover for increases in raw material prices, taxes or labor costs, although some contracts provide for renegotiation to address certain material adverse changes. U.S. military spending is dependent upon the U.S. defense budget. The U.S. Department of Defense, or the DOD, budget has generally increased for each fiscal year from fiscal 1997 to the recently approved budget for fiscal 2007, and, based on the Bush Administration’s current Future Year Defense Program, the DOD budget is expected to continue to increase modestly through fiscal 2010. However, future DOD budgets after fiscal 2007 could be negatively impacted by several factors, including but not limited to the U.S. Government’s budget deficits and spending priorities and the cost of sustaining the U.S. military presence and rebuilding operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which could cause the DOD budget to remain unchanged or to decline. A significant decline in U.S. military expenditures in the future could result in a reduction in the amount of our products sold to the various agencies and buying organizations of the U.S. Government. We are subject to certain unique business risks as a result of supplying equipment and services to the U.S. Government. In addition, government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to modification and audit. Companies engaged in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to business risks specific to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally: • suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; • terminate existing contracts; • reduce the value of existing contracts; and • audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. Most of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. 9 Table of Contents On contracts where the price is based on cost, the U.S. Government may review our costs and performance, as well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be subject to reimbursement. In addition to these U.S. Government contract risks, we are at times required to obtain approval from U.S. Government agencies to export our products. Additionally, we are not permitted to export some of our products. A determination by the U.S. Government that we failed to receive required approvals or licenses could eliminate or restrict our ability to sell our products outside the United States, and the penalties that could be imposed by the U.S. Government for failure to comply with these laws could be significant. Certain of our divisions and subsidiaries have been subject to a pricing review by the DOD Office of Inspector General. Five of our divisions and subsidiaries have been the subject of a DOD Office of Inspector General review of our records for the purchase of determining whether the DOD’s various buying offices within the Defense Logistics Agency had negotiated “fair and reasonable” prices for certain sole source spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries during fiscal years 2002 through 2004. On February 28, 2006, we received a copy of the Inspector General’s final report dated February 23, 2006, and on April 19, 2006, the Inspector General issued its final report dated February 23, 2006 and made public a redacted version thereof. The report recommends (i) that the Defense Logistics Agency request that those five subsidiaries and divisions voluntarily refund, in the aggregate, $2.6 million of allegedly overpriced parts and (ii) that Defense Logistics Agency contracting officers reevaluate their procedures for determining the reasonableness of pricing for sole source spare parts purchased from those divisions and subsidiaries and seek to develop Strategic Supplier Alliances with those divisions and subsidiaries. The Company’s position has been, and continues to be, that our pricing has been fair and reasonable and that there is no legal basis for the amount suggested as a refund by the Inspector General in its report. In response to the report, we offered reasons why we disagree with the Inspector General’s overall analysis. The Defense Logistics Agency has requested additional information from the Company and the Company’s position on the voluntary refund. The Company has responded to such request. In February 2006, the Defense Logistics Agency made a request to initiate discussions regarding future pricing and developing an acquisition strategy that will mutually strengthen TransDigm and the Defense Logistics Agency’s business relationship. The parties have discussed and are considering future purchase approaches but negotiations regarding Strategic Supplier Alliances or any specific approach have not yet commenced but may occur at a later date. As a result of those negotiations, it is possible that the divisions and subsidiaries subject to the pricing review will enter into Strategic Supplier Alliances with the Defense Logistics Agency. It is likely that in connection with any Strategic Supplier Alliance, the Defense Logistics Agency will seek prices for parts based on cost or may seek volume discounts or other favorable pricing and/or the applicable division or subsidiary may agree to cost or pricing justification or appropriate discounts. It is also possible that the DOD may seek alternative sources of supply for such parts. The entry into Strategic Supplier Alliances or a decision by the DOD to pursue alternative sources of supply for our sole source parts could reduce the amount of revenue we derive from, and the profitability of certain of our supply arrangements with, certain agencies and buying organizations of the U.S. Government. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments” for additional information with respect to the pricing review. 10 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected if we would lose our government or industry approvals or if more stringent government regulations are enacted or if industry oversight is increased. The aerospace industry is highly regulated in the United States and in other countries. In order to sell our components, we and the components we manufacture must be certified by the FAA, the DOD and similar agencies in foreign countries and by individual manufacturers. If new and more stringent government regulations are adopted or if industry oversight increases, we might incur significant expenses to comply with any new regulations or heightened industry oversight. In addition, if material authorizations or approvals were revoked or suspended, our business would be adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health, harm our ability to react to changes to our business and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness, including the notes. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of September 30, 2006, our total indebtedness was approximately $925 million, excluding unused commitments under our new revolving loan facility, with an aggregate of $650 million outstanding under TransDigm Inc.’s senior secured credit facility, or the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, and an aggregate $275 million of principal amount of TransDigm Inc.’s 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes, or the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes, under the indenture governing such notes, or Indenture. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other important consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, all of our debt under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, which includes a $650 million term loan facility and a revolving loan facility of $150 million, will bear interest at floating rates. Accordingly, in the event that interest rates increase, our debt service expense will also increase. In order to reduce the floating interest rate risk, the Company entered into an interest rate swap in June 2006 for fixed interest rates on $187 million of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility. This interest rate swap will decrease to $170 million on September 23, 2007 and to $150 million on September 23, 2008 through June 23, 2009. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, including the notes, and to meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and any failure to meet our debt service obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, including the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and amounts borrowed under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, and to fund our operations, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. 11 Table of Contents We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all or that future borrowings will be available to us under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the amounts borrowed under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility and the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot service our debt, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments, the Indenture and the New Senior Secured Credit Facility may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would otherwise adversely affect the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes. The terms of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Indenture may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The New Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Indenture contain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on TD Group, TransDigm Inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility) and TransDigm Inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the Indenture) and may limit their ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. The New Senior Secured Credit Facility and Indenture include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of TD Group, TransDigm Inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility) and TransDigm Inc. and its subsidiaries (in the case of the Indenture) to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt; • make investments; • sell assets; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • incur or suffer to exist liens; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • engage in certain business activities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility or the Indenture. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility and the holders of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition, following an event of default under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders under that facility will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making 12 Table of Contents debt service payments on the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes. If the debt under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility or the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes and our other debt. We are dependent on our highly trained employees and any work stoppage or difficulty hiring similar employees could adversely affect our business. Because our products are complicated and highly engineered, we depend on an educated and trained workforce. There is substantial competition for skilled personnel in the aircraft component industry, and we could be adversely affected by a shortage of skilled employees. We may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract and retain qualified personnel. As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately 1,400 employees. Approximately 9% of our employees were represented by the United Steelworkers Union, approximately 4% were represented by the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America and approximately 6% were represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Collective bargaining agreements between us and these labor unions expire in April 2008, November 2008 and May 2009, respectively. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of finished goods, any work stoppage could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers. Our business is dependent on the availability of certain components and raw materials that we buy from suppliers. Our business is affected by the price and availability of the raw materials and component parts that we use to manufacture our components. Our business, therefore, could be adversely impacted by factors affecting our suppliers (such as the destruction of our suppliers’ facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers’ employees or the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality), or by increased costs of such raw materials or components if we were unable to pass along such price increases to our customers. Because we maintain a relatively small inventory of raw materials and component parts, our business could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain these raw materials and components from our suppliers in the quantities we require or on favorable terms. Although we believe in most cases that we could identify alternative suppliers, or alternative raw materials or component parts, the lengthy and expensive FAA and OEM certification processes associated with aerospace products could prevent efficient replacement of a supplier, raw material or component part. We are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations of or liabilities under such environmental laws and regulations. Our operations and facilities are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, discharges of pollutants into the air and water and the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, relevant common law or the environmental permits required for our operations. Pursuant to certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of a contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials also may be held liable for such costs at a disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by them. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present and former sites, principally in connection with historical operations, 13 Table of Contents and investigations and/or clean-ups have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. We also receive inquiries and notices of potential liability with respect to offsite disposal facilities from time to time. Although we are not aware of any sites for which material obligations exist, the discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional clean-up obligations could result in significant liability. We intend to pursue future acquisitions. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot effectively integrate acquired operations. A significant portion of our growth has occurred through acquisitions. Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. We intend to pursue acquisitions that we believe will present opportunities consistent with our overall business strategy. However, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates to purchase or we may be unable to acquire desired businesses or assets on economically acceptable terms. In addition, we may not be able to raise the money necessary to complete future acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. We regularly engage in discussions with respect to potential acquisition and investment opportunities. If we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Future acquisitions could likely result in the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in interest and amortization expenses or periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets as well as significant charges relating to integration costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire into our existing business. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business, which could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. Our acquisitions have resulted in significant increases in identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Identifiable intangible assets, which primarily include trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, license agreements and technology were approximately $226.0 million at September 30, 2006, representing approximately 15.9% of our total assets. Goodwill recognized in accounting for the Mergers and other recent acquisitions was approximately $877.8 million at September 30, 2006, representing approximately 61.9% of our total assets. We may never realize the full value of our identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, and to the extent we were to determine that our identifiable intangible assets and/our goodwill were impaired within the meaning of applicable accounting regulations, we would be required to write-off the amount of any impairment. We face significant competition. We operate in a highly competitive global industry and compete against a number of companies, including divisions of larger companies, some of which have significantly greater resources than we do, and therefore may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Competitors in our product lines are both U.S. and foreign companies and range in size from divisions of large public corporations to small privately 14 Table of Contents held entities. We believe that our ability to compete depends on high product performance, consistent high quality, short lead-time and timely delivery, competitive pricing, superior customer service and support and continued certification under customer quality requirements and assurance programs. We may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. We could be adversely affected if one of our components causes an aircraft to crash. Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of an aircraft component that we have designed, manufactured or serviced. While we believe that our liability insurance is adequate to protect us from future products liability claims, it may not be adequate. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any such liability not covered by insurance or for which third party indemnification is not available could result in significant liability to us. In addition, a crash caused by one of our components could also damage our reputation for quality products. We believe our customers consider safety and reliability as key criteria in selecting a provider of aircraft components. If a crash were to be caused by one of our components, or if we were otherwise to fail to maintain a satisfactory record of safety and reliability, our ability to retain and attract customers may be materially adversely affected. Our stock prices may be volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the purchase price due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, including possible changes due to the cyclical nature of the aerospace industry and other factors such as fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket ordering, which could cause short-term swings in profit margins. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our share price. A substantial amount of our outstanding stock is held by affiliates and not currently traded in the public market. While the sale of these shares into the open market may be limited by applicable regulations, the stockholders of these shares are not bound by any contractual obligations not to sell. Thus, our existing stockholders may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets. In addition, we may sell additional shares of common stock into the public markets or issue convertible debt securities to raise capital in the future. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public markets or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities to raise capital at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our principal stockholder and its affiliates will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and could discourage the purchase of our outstanding shares at a premium. Warburg Pincus, through its control of TD Group, LLC, is deemed to beneficially own approximately 70% of our outstanding common stock as of November 1, 2006. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of our company and may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchase of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. 15 Table of Contents As a result of Warburg Pincus’ control of TD Group, LLC and representation on our Board of Directors, Warburg Pincus will be able to influence all affairs and actions of our company, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interest of Warburg Pincus may differ from the interest of our other stockholders. For example, Warburg Pincus could oppose a third party offer to acquire us that you might consider attractive, and the third party may not be able or willing to proceed unless Warburg Pincus supports the offer. In addition, if our Board of Directors supports a transaction requiring an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, Warburg Pincus, through its control of TD Group, LLC, is currently in a position to defeat any required stockholder approval of the proposed amendment. If our Board of Directors supports an acquisition of us by means of a merger or similar transaction, the vote of Warburg Pincus, as the managing member of TD Group, LLC, alone is currently sufficient to approve or block the transaction under Delaware law. In each of these cases and in similar situations, you may disagree with Warburg Pincus as to whether the action opposed or supported by Warburg Pincus is in the best interest of our stockholders. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements since we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, you will not have the protections afforded by these corporate governance requirements. Because TD Group, LLC controls more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are considered to be a “controlled company” for the purposes of the NYSE listing requirements. Under the NYSE rules, a “controlled company” may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate government requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of our Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating and corporate governance committee of our Board of Directors be composed entirely of independent directors and (3) the requirement that the compensation committee of our Board of Directors be composed entirely of independent directors. Given that TD Group, LLC controls a majority of the voting power of our common stock, we are permitted, and have elected, to opt out of compliance with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain certain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 149,600,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Without stockholder approval, the Board of Directors has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock. With these rights, holders of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered Board of Directors, whereby directors serve for three-year terms, with approximately one-third of the directors coming up for re-election each year. Having a staggered board will make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of our Board of Directors through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our Board of Directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of the voting power of our issued and outstanding capital stock, voting together as a single class, is required for the alteration, amendment or repeal of certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including the provisions authorizing a staggered board, and certain provisions of our amended and restated bylaws, including the provisions relating to our stockholders’ ability to call special meetings, notice provisions for stockholder business to be conducted at an annual meeting, requests for stockholder lists and corporate records, nomination and removal of directors, and filling of vacancies on our Board of Directors. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder”, we may not enter into a “business 16 Table of Contents combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. TD Group, LLC, Warburg Pincus and their affiliates do not constitute “interested stockholders” for the purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. We do not intend to pay regular cash dividends on our stock. We do not anticipate declaring or paying regular cash dividends on our common stock or any other equity security in the foreseeable future. The amounts that may be available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted under out debt and other agreements. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Therefore, you should not rely on dividend income from shares of our common stock. 