ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Due to the nature of our business, we do not have significant amounts of recurring revenues from our existing customers, and we are highly dependent on new business development. Most of our revenues are derived from the installation of surveillance and safety systems which are generally non-recurring. Our customers are primarily governmental entities and their affiliates such as cities, municipalities and provinces, non-profit organizations and commercial entities, such as airports, customs agencies, hotels, real estate developments, banks, mines, railways, supermarkets, and entertainment enterprises. We manufacture and install surveillance and safety systems for these customers and generate revenues from the sale of these systems to our customers and, to a lesser extent, from maintenance of these systems for our customers. After we have manufactured and installed a system at any particular customer site, we have generated the majority of revenues from that particular customer. We do not expect to generate significant revenues from any existing customer in future years unless that customer has additional installation sites for which our services might be required. Therefore, in order to maintain a level of revenues each year that is at or in excess of the level of revenues we generated in prior years, we must identify and be retained by new customers. If our business development, marketing and sales techniques do not result in an equal or greater number of projects of at least comparable size and value for us in a given year compared to the prior year, then we may be unable to increase our revenues and earnings or even sustain current levels in the future. A decrease or delay in state or local mandating and funding of surveillance and safety system installation and operation may cause our revenues and profits to decrease. We depend substantially on national, state and local government laws mandating and funding surveillance and safety system installation and operation in China. We expect that this dependence will continue for the foreseeable future. If China’s priorities change, whether due to tightening budgets, shifting policy, or otherwise, initiatives such as the Safe City Project may be abandoned or cut back, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer material adverse effects. 15 Our products and services often are subject to testing, inspection and approval and failure to obtain any such approval or delays in obtaining such approvals can affect our ability to receive payments due to us. We frequently install surveillance and safety systems, supply products and services pursuant to agreements with general contractors or government agencies. The successful completion of our obligations under these contracts is often subject to satisfactory testing, inspection and approval of such products and services. No assurance can be given that the necessary approval of our products and services will be granted on a timely basis or at all, and that we will receive any payments due to us. In some cases, we may be dependent on others to complete these projects which may also delay payments to us. Any failure to obtain these approvals and payments may have a material adverse effect on our business, our cash flow and future financial performance. We face risks related to general domestic and global economic conditions and to the current credit crisis. Our current operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, the current uncertainty arising out of domestic and global economic conditions, including the recent disruption in credit markets, poses a risk to the economies in which we operate that has impacted demand for our products and services, and may impact our ability to manage normal relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be materially negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products and services from a slow-down in the general economy, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets. In order to grow at the pace expected by management, we will require additional capital to support our long-term business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to proceed with our long-term business plan, and we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance the overall productivity and benefit from economies of scale. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. Our business could be adversely affected by reduced levels of cash, whether from operations or from borrowings. Historically, our principal sources of funds have been cash flows from operations and borrowings from banks and other institutions. In the past, we have also funded our capital expenditures and other financing needs through public and private equity offerings. Our working capital requirements will continue to increase as we get more sizable installation projects. If we were to expand our operations at a rate exceeding operating cash flow or if current demand or pricing of our products and services were to decrease substantially, additional financing could be required. If we were not able to obtain such financing or renew our existing bank loans when needed, our failure could have a negative impact on our ability to grow and maintain our competitive advantage. 16 In addition, our operating and financial performance may generate less cash and could result in our failing to comply with our credit agreement covenants. We were in compliance with these covenants in fiscal year 2010 and expect to be in compliance with these covenants during fiscal year 2011. However, our ability to remain in compliance in the future will depend on our future financial performance and may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to remain in material compliance with the credit agreement, or that we will be able to obtain future amendments to the credit agreement to avoid a default. In the event of a default, there can be no assurance that we could negotiate a new credit agreement or that we could obtain a new credit agreement with satisfactory terms and conditions within a reasonable time period. We sometimes extend credit to our customers. Failure to collect the trade receivables or untimely collection of them could affect our liquidity. We extend credit to some of our customers while generally requiring no collateral. As we get more and more sizable installation projects, we have frequently utilized the build-and-transfer model where all or a large portion of the contract price will generally not be paid until after the customers’ satisfactory testing, inspection and approval of the projects or the stages of the projects. We also typically grant longer payment terms to customers, such as governmental entities, on large-scale, long-term projects. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition and generally have no difficulties in collecting our receivables. However, if we encounter future problems collecting amounts due from our customers or if we experience delays in the collection of amounts due from our customers, our liquidity and results of operation could be negatively affected. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our ability to provide services and products to our customers, as well as our ability to obtain future business, may be harmed. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by those subcontractors. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations to our customers, could expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. 17 If we are unable to attract and retain senior management and qualified technical and sales personnel, our operations, financial condition and prospects will be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends in part on the contributions of our management team and key technical and sales personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified new personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continuing employment of our CEO, Mr. Guoshen Tu, and our CFO, Mr. Terence Yap. There is significant competition in our industry for qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key senior managerial, technical and sales personnel or that we will be able to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that we may require in the future. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel in the future, our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our growth strategy has required us to make acquisitions and to make additional acquisitions in the future, which could subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our growth strategy includes identifying and acquiring or investing in suitable candidates on acceptable terms. We have grown significantly through a series of acquisitions since our reverse acquisition of Golden and have entered into non-binding letters of intent to acquire several other companies. Over time, we may acquire or make investments in other providers of products that complement our business and other companies in the security industry. The successful integration of these companies and any other acquired businesses require us to: integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, production and other personnel; incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into our offerings from an engineering, sales and marketing perspective; coordinate research and development efforts; integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine back office accounting, order processing and support functions. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: diversion of management’s attention from running our existing business; increased expenses, including travel, legal, administrative and compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; increased costs to integrate personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with our own; adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill associated with acquisitions; potential disputes with sellers of acquired businesses, technologies, services, products and potential liabilities; and dilution to our earnings per share if we issue common stock in any acquisition. 18 Moreover, performance problems with an acquired business, technology, product or service could also have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. Any acquired business, technology, product or service could significantly underperform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisitions. Geographic distance between business operations, the compatibility of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined also presents significant challenges. Acquired businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. If we cannot overcome these challenges, we may not realize actual benefits from past and future acquisitions, which will impair our overall business results. Our acquisition strategy also depends on our ability to obtain necessary government approvals, as described under “- Risks Related to Doing Business in China - We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006.” Due to our rapid growth in recent years, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance so evaluating our business and prospects may be difficult. Our business has grown and evolved rapidly in recent years as demonstrated by our growth in sales revenue from approximately $427.35 million in 2008, to $580.87 million in 2009 and to $684.70 million in 2010. We may not be able to achieve similar growth in future periods, and our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. Therefore, you should not rely on our past results or our historical rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. Management's estimates and assumptions affect reported amounts of expenses and changes in those estimates could impact operating results. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually, and the results of such testing may adversely affect our financial results. We use a variety of valuation techniques in determining fair value. The impairment review is highly judgmental and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions have a significant impact on the amount of any impairment charge recorded, and actual results may differ significantly from the estimates and assumptions used. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events which are included in the financial statements or tax returns. In assessing the realizability of the deferred tax assets, management makes certain assumptions about whether the deferred tax assets will be realized. We expect the deferred tax assets currently recorded to be fully realizable; however, there can be no assurance that an increased valuation allowance would not need to be recorded in the future. Our facilities, or facilities of our customers or suppliers, could be susceptible to natural disasters. All of our facilities and many of the facilities of our customers and suppliers are located in China. Natural disasters, such as floods and earthquakes, occur frequently in China, and they pose substantial threats to businesses with operations there. As a developing country, China’s emergency-response ability is limited, and its ability to provide emergency reconstruction and other aid to businesses affected by natural disasters is limited. Should a natural disaster severely damage one of our facilities, or damage a major facility of one or more of our significant customers or suppliers, our business could be materially disrupted. 19 We have limited insurance coverage in China, and any business disruption or litigation we experience may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, except for fire insurance and our liability insurance for directors and officers, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may affect our stock price. Our quarterly revenues, expenses, operating results and gross profit margins vary from quarter to quarter. As a result, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some quarters, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. The reasons our quarterly results may fluctuate include: seasonality inherent in the surveillance and safety industry; variations in profit margins attributable to product mix; changes in the general competitive and economic conditions; delays in, or uneven timing in the delivery of, customer orders; the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; and delays in surveillance and safety funding and budgetary restraints on national and local government spending. Period to period comparisons of our results should not be relied on as indications of future performance. Future government regulations or other standards could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of national and local authorities in the PRC. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that these laws, regulations and/or licensing requirements change, we may be required to modify our operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations. In addition, new regulations may be enacted that could have an adverse effect on us. 20 Our limited ability to protect our intellectual property, and the possibility that our technology could inadvertently infringe technology owned by others, may adversely affect our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. A successful challenge to the ownership of our technology could materially damage our business prospects. Our competitors may assert that our technologies or products infringe on their patents or proprietary rights. We may be required to obtain from others licenses that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Problems with intellectual property rights could increase the cost of our products or delay or preclude our new product development and commercialization. If infringement claims against us are deemed valid, we may not be able to obtain appropriate licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation could be costly and time-consuming but may be necessary to protect our technology license positions or to defend against infringement claims. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated any of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are similarly subject to Chinese anti-corruption laws. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or Chinese anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Safetech is a BVI company, while our operating subsidiaries are PRC or Hong Kong companies, and most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. Therefore, certain judgments obtained against our Company by our shareholders may not be enforceable in the BVI or China. Safetech is a BVI company, and our operating subsidiaries are PRC or Hong Kong companies. Most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. All or substantially all of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our Company or such persons or to enforce against it or these persons the United States federal securities laws, or to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. 21 RISKS RELATED TO OUR HIGH YIELD NOTES AND TERM LOAN FACILITY AGREEMENT Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions and our failure to comply with any of the debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The agreements governing our outstanding debt, including the indenture governing the $84 million Tranche B Zero Coupon Guaranteed Senior Unsecured Notes issued in 2009,the $50 million term loan facility agreement with China Development Bank Corporation Hong Kong Branch (“CDB”) dated October 28, 2010 (the “CDB Term Loan Facility Agreement”), contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to, among other things, merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue stock of subsidiaries, incur additional debt and create liens on our assets to secure debt. If there is default, and we do not maintain certain financial covenants or we do not maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) or redeem or repurchase our capital stock. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the agreements governing our outstanding debt. These agreements and their corresponding debt could have significant consequences to investors. For example, they could: limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows, and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt, or declare bankruptcy. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, the value realized on such assets or operations will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers. Accordingly, we may be forced to sell at an unfavorable price. 22 Our level of indebtedness may make it more difficult for us to fulfill all of our debt obligations and may reduce the amount of cash available for maintaining and growing our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues. Our total debt under existing loans as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $256.90 million, of which approximately $196.33 million are short-term loans. While we expect to renew our short-term loans when they become due, our inability to renew these loans upon maturity may cause us working capital constraints. This substantial indebtedness could also impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill all of our debt obligations, especially during a downturn in our business, in the industry in which we operate or in the general economy. Our indebtedness and the incurrence of any new indebtedness could (i) make it more difficult for us to satisfy our existing obligations, which could in turn result in an event of default on such obligations, (ii) require us to seek other sources of capital to finance cash used in operating activities, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes, (iii) impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; (iv) diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business, the industry in which we operate or the economy generally, (v) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, or (vi) place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all, which could cause us to default on our debt service obligations and be subject to foreclosure on such loans. Additionally, we could incur additional indebtedness in the future and, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks above could intensify. A covenant in our CDB Term Loan Facility Agreement may cause the facility be cancelled, though at such time we may not possess sufficient liquidity to satisfy such obligations. Pursuant to the CDB Term Loan Facility Agreement, if our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Guoshen Tu, ceases to be the beneficial owner of at least ten percent of our outstanding capital stock, the facilities may be cancelled and all outstanding amounts under such facilities may become immediately due and payable with no less than 30 days notice. We understand from Mr. Tu that Whitehorse Technology Limited, a company organized in the British Virgin Islands and wholly-owned by Mr. Tu (“Whitehorse”), and Mr. Tu have pledged shares of our common stock that are directly and indirectly beneficially owned by Whitehorse and Mr. Tu to secure Whitehorse’s obligations under a term loan facility agreement, dated June 24, 2010, by and between Whitehorse and a third party investor not affiliated with us (“Whitehorse Facility”). Whitehorse and Mr. Tu have informed us that no event of default has been declared as of the date of this annual report. We are not a party to any of the Whitehorse Facility agreements and did not make any representations, warranties or covenants in connection with the Whitehorse Facility. Failure on the part of Whitehorse and Mr. Tu to meet their obligations under the Whitehorse Facility agreements may trigger a default under the Whitehorse Facility and would permit the lender to accelerate the Whitehorse Facility and foreclose on the shares of our common stock that were pledged by Whitehorse and Mr. Tu. Since our financing arrangement under the CDB Term Loan Facility Agreement provides for a cancellation of such facilities and an acceleration of the amounts owed by us under the facilities if Mr. Tu does not, directly or indirectly through Whitehorse, maintain a specified ownership percentage in our outstanding capital stock, such a foreclosure by the lender could potentially trigger the acceleration of our payment under the CDB Term Loan Facility Agreement. If that occurs, our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. 23 RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Seasonality affects our operating results. Our sales are affected by seasonality. Our revenues are usually higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year because fewer projects are undertaken during and around the Chinese New Year holiday. Our success relies on our management’s ability to understand the highly evolving surveillance and safety industry. The Chinese surveillance and safety industry is nascent and rapidly evolving. Therefore, it is critical that our management is able to understand industry trends and make good strategic business decisions. If our management is unable to identify industry trends and act in response to such trends in a way that is beneficial to us, our business will suffer. If we are unable to respond to the rapid changes in our industry and changes in our customer’s requirements and preferences, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could lose customers and market share. The surveillance and safety industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Sudden changes in customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing products, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of products and services in the surveillance and safety industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: enhance our existing products and services; anticipate changing customer requirements by designing, developing, and launching new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of additional products and services involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. If we fail to introduce products with new technologies in a timely manner, or adapt our products to these new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that even if we are able to introduce new products or adapt our products to new technologies that our products will gain acceptance among our customers. In addition, from time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technological innovations that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our existing products, and that may cause customers to refrain from purchasing our existing products, resulting in inventory obsolescence. 24 We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position among strong competition in the surveillance and safety industry, and we expect this competition to continue to intensify. The Chinese surveillance and safety industry is highly competitive. In addition, since China joined the World Trade Organization, we also face competition from international competitors. Some of our international competitors are larger than us and possess greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products and services that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and services and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because they have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition could require us to reduce our prices, result in our receiving fewer customer orders, and result in a loss of our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to distinguish ourselves in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our business and reputation as a manufacturer of high quality surveillance and safety products may be adversely affected by product defects or performance. We believe that we offer high quality products that are reliable and competitively priced. If our products do not perform to specifications, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. In addition, product defects could result in substantial product liability. We do not have product liability insurance. If we face significant liability claims, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our product offerings involve a lengthy sales cycle and we may not anticipate sales levels appropriately, which could impair our profitability. Some of our products and services are designed for medium to large commercial, industrial and government facilities desiring to protect valuable assets and/or prevent intrusion into high security facilities in China. Given the nature of our products and the customers that purchase them, sales cycles can be lengthy as customers conduct intensive investigations and deliberate between competing technologies and providers. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with some of our products and services is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. If sales in any period fall significantly below anticipated levels, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We could face liability for our failure to respond adequately to alarm activations. The nature of the services we provide potentially exposes us to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions or system failures that may be inherent in other businesses. In the event of litigation with respect to such matters, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the costs of such litigation could have an adverse effect on us. 25 RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: the higher level of government involvement; the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; the rapid growth rate; the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of surveillance and safety investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all but one of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese officers, directors and subsidiaries. 26 The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. Most of our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under PRC law, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (the “SAFE”), by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect our PRC operating subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. 27 Our ability to conduct foreign-exchange activities in the PRC is subject to uncertainties surrounding the interpretation of SAFE regulations, one of which is Circular 75. Under the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China (as amended and supplemented, “Circular 75”), PRC residents must register with a local branch of SAFE (1) before they establish or gain control of an overseas special purpose vehicle, or SPV, for the purpose of overseas equity financing (including convertible debt financing); (2) when they contribute their assets or equity interests in a domestic enterprise to an SPV or engage in overseas financing after contributing assets or equity interests to an SPV; and (3) when their SPV undergoes a material change outside of China, such as a change in share capital or merger or acquisition. If any PRC resident who holds stock in an SPV fails to make the required SAFE registration and make any amended registration, the onshore PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore SPV. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment registration requirements described above could result in liability for evading PRC laws applicable to foreign exchange restrictions. We have advised our shareholders who are PRC residents, as defined in Circular 75, to register with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This new regulation, among other things, governs the approval process by which a PRC company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require the PRC parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the new regulation, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. 28 The new regulation allows PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the PRC business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulation may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms that satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests. In addition to the above risks, in many instances, we will seek to structure transactions in a manner that avoids the need to make applications or a series of applications with Chinese regulatory authorities under these new M&A regulations. If we fail to effectively structure an acquisition in a manner that avoids the need for such applications or if the Chinese government interprets the requirements of the new M&A regulations in a manner different from our understanding of such regulations, then acquisitions that we have effected may be unwound or subject to rescission. Also, if the Chinese government determines that our structure of any of our acquisitions does not comply with these new regulations, then we may also be subject to fines and penalties. Failure to comply with Chinese regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee incentive plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In December 2006, The People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by Chinese individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, the SAFE issued the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a Chinese citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies. Under this rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a qualified PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who receive stock option grants will be subject to this rule. Our board of directors has adopted the 2007 Employee Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) in 2007 which was amended in February 2010. As of the date of this annual report, we only granted restricted stock under the plan. We and the grantees intend to make the required registration; however, failure or inability by our company or the Chinese grantees to comply with these regulations may subject these individuals to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiaries, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to approval by relevant governmental authorities in China and other requirements under relevant PRC regulations. 29 We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. According to the relevant PRC regulations on foreign-invested enterprises in China, depending on the amount of total investment and the type of business in which a foreign-invested enterprise is engaged, capital contributions to foreign-invested enterprises in China are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce or its local branches. We may not obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. The discontinuation and uncertainty of the preferential tax treatment currently available to our PRC subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Before the implementation of the new enterprise income tax law (as discussed below), Foreign Invested Enterprises, or FIEs, established in the PRC, unless granted by Chinese government to enjoy preferential tax treatments, such as the “two-year exemption and three-year half reduction”, were generally subject to an enterprise income tax (EIT) rate of 33%, which included a 30% state income tax and a 3% local income tax. On March 16, 2007, the Tenth National People’s Congress of China passed the new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and on November 28, 2007, the State Council of China passed the Implementing Rules for the EIT Law, or the Implementing Rules which took effect on January 1, 2008. The EIT Law and Implementing Rules impose a unified EIT of 25% on all domestic-invested enterprises and FIEs, unless they qualify under certain limited exceptions. Despite these changes, the EIT Law gives the FIEs established before March 16, 2007, or Old FIEs, a five-year grandfather period during which they can continue to enjoy their existing preferential tax treatments. During this five-year grandfather period, the Old FIEs which enjoyed tax rates lower than 25% under the original EIT Law shall gradually increase their EIT rate within 5 years starting from 2008 until the tax rate reaches 25%. In addition, the Old FIEs that are eligible for the “two-year exemption and three-year half reduction” or “five-year exemption and five-year half-reduction” under the original EIT Law, are allowed to enjoy their preference until these holidays expire. The discontinuation and uncertainty of any such special or preferential tax treatment or other incentives would have an adverse effect on our business, fiscal condition and current operations in China. The enacted Chinese enterprise income tax law will affect tax exemptions on the dividends we receive and increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to us. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of Delaware. We conduct substantially all of our business through our wholly- and majority-owned Chinese subsidiaries, and we derive all of our income from these subsidiaries. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends derived by foreign enterprises from business operations in China were not subject to the Chinese enterprise income tax. However, such tax exemption ceased as of January 1, 2008 and thereafter with the effectiveness of the EIT Law. Under the EIT Law, if we are not deemed to be a “resident enterprise” for Chinese tax purposes, a withholding tax at the rate of 10% would be applicable to any dividends paid by our Chinese subsidiaries to us. However, if we are deemed to be a “resident enterprise” established outside of China whose “de facto management body” is located in China, we would be classified as a resident enterprise for Chinese tax purposes and thus would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on all of our income, including interest income on the proceeds from this offering on a worldwide basis. At the present time, the Chinese tax authority has not issued any guidance on the application of the EIT Law and its implementing rules on non-Chinese enterprise or group enterprise controlled entities. As a result, it is unclear what factors will be used by the Chinese tax authorities to determine whether we have a “de facto management body” in China. However, as substantially all members of our management team are located in China, we may be deemed to be a “resident enterprise” and therefore subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on our worldwide income, with the possible exclusion of dividends received directly from another Chinese tax resident. In addition, although under the EIT Law and the Implementing Rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempted income,” we cannot assure you that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. As a result of such changes, our historical operating results will not be indicative of our operating results for future periods and the value of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. 30 Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and the Renminbi and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in Renminbi and our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although The People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials, components and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against Renminbi, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. 31 We do not currently expect to be classified as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our tax year ending December 31, 2011. However, the PFIC test is an annual test that, as discussed below, depends upon the composition of our gross income for the year and the percentage, based on a quarterly average for the year, of our gross assets that constitute “passive” assets. Accordingly, it is not possible to determine whether we will not be classified as a PFIC for our tax year ending December 31, 2011 until after the year has ended. In addition, even if we are not classified as a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2011, because the PFIC test is annual, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any following tax year. A non-U.S. corporation will be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year if (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income for such year or (ii) at least 50% of the fair market value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during such year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The fair market value of our assets may be determined to a large extent by the market price of our ordinary shares, which may fluctuate. If we are treated as a PFIC for any tax year during which U.S. shareholders hold ordinary shares, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. holders. We face uncertainty from the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises’ Share Transfer (“Circular 698”) released in December 2009 by China's State Administration of Taxation (SAT), effective as of January 1, 2008. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country (jurisdiction) where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor must provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfer. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through the “abuse of form of organization” and there are no reasonable commercial purposes for such form with the result that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authorities shall have the power to reassess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with the “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of an offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. “Income derived from equity transfers” as mentioned in this circular refers to income derived by nonresident enterprises from direct or indirect transfers of equity interest in China resident enterprises, excluding shares in Chinese resident enterprises that are bought and sold openly on the stock exchange. While the term “indirectly transfer” is not defined, we understand that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. The relevant PRC tax authorities have not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the offshore country (jurisdiction) and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the PRC tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. Meanwhile, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to determine if our company complies with the Circular 698. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the New York Stock Exchange and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock started trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “CSR” on October 29, 2007. The trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on the New York Stock Exchange. Reported average daily trading volume in our common stock for the three months immediately prior to February 24, 2011, was approximately 1.1 million shares. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. 32 Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management and, therefore depress the trading price of the common stock. Delaware corporate law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in its management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors; and any vacancy on the board of directors, however the vacancy occurs, may be filled by the directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally limits our ability to engage in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2010, the closing bid price of our common stock, as reported on the markets on which our securities have traded, ranged between $4.18 and $8.95. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the surveillance and safety parts or surveillance and safety industries; 33 customer demand for our products; investor perceptions of the surveillance and safety parts and surveillance and safety industries in general and our company in particular; the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; loss of external funding sources; quarterly fluctuation in operating results, as described above; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, the securities markets in the United States, China and other jurisdictions recently experienced the largest decline in share prices in years. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. 34 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On August 11, 2010, we received a comment letter from the Staff of the Division of Corporate Finance of the SEC with respect to its review of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, as amended (the “2009 Form 10-K”), and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2010. We responded to the letter, and on October 8, 2010, December 1, 2010 and January 14, 2011, we received follow-up letters from the SEC, to which we also responded. While many of the Staff’s comments have been resolved, we have four unresolved Staff comments related to the 2009 Form 10-K and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2010. The January 14, 2011 comment letter requested enhanced disclosures and clarification on our accounts receivable accounting policy and certain discussions under the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section. On January 31, 2011, we submitted a response to the SEC that we believe addresses their comments. We have revised the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to include information which we believe is responsive to the comments in the Staff’s comment letters. We are currently awaiting the completion of the SEC’s review of our response to their most recent letter. We will continue to work with the SEC to resolve any outstanding comments. 