D. Risk Factors An investment in the Common Stock of the Company involves a high degree of risk, related to our business, our industry, doing business in China and the market for our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the business, operating results and financial condition of the Company. You should consider these factors in conjunction with the other information contained in this report and the documents filed as exhibits hereto. Risks Related to our Business Due to the nature of our business, we do not have significant amounts of recurring revenues from our existing customers and we are highly dependent on new business development. Most of our revenues derive from the installation of security and surveillance systems which are generally non-recurring. Our customers are mainly government entities, non-profit organizations and commercial entities (including airport, custom, hotel, real estate, bank, mine, railway, supermarket, and entertainment enterprises). We manufacture and install security systems for these customers and generate revenues from the sale of these systems to our customers and, to a lesser extent, from maintenance of these systems for our customers. After we have manufactured and installed a system at any particular customer site, we have generated the majority of revenues from that particular client. We would not expect to generate significant revenues from any existing client in future years unless that client has several possible installation sites. Therefore, in order to maintain a level of revenues each year that is at or in excess of the level of revenues we generated in prior years, we must identify and be retained by new clients. If our business development, marketing and sales techniques do not result in an equal or greater number of projects of at least comparable size and value for us in a given year compared to the prior year, then we may be unable to grow our revenues and earnings from current levels or we may have lower levels of revenues and earnings in the future. In order to grow at the pace expected by management, we will require additional capital to support our long-term business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to proceed with our long-term business plan and we may be forced to limit or curtail our future operations. 7 We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, so as to enhance the overall productivity and benefit from economies of scale. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from quarter to quarter, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or other sources. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders or the issuance of securities with superior rights to our current outstanding securities. In addition, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing future equity or debt securities. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to grow or to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. Our future success depends in part on attracting and retaining key senior management and qualified technical and sales personnel. We also face certain risks as a result of the recent changes to our management team. Our future success depends in part on the contributions of our management team and key technical and sales personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified new personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continuing employment of our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Guoshen Tu, our Chief Technical Officer, Dr. Yong Zhao, our Chief Operating Officer, Jianguo Jiang, and our Vice President, Terence Yap. There is significant competition in our industry for qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key senior managerial, technical and sales personnel or that we will be able to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that we may require in the future. We also cannot assure you that our employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy includes making acquisitions in the future, which could subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our growth strategy includes identifying and acquiring or investing in suitable candidates on acceptable terms. We recently completed the acquisition of the assets of Shenzhen Yuan Da Wei Shi Technology Limited. In addition, over time, we may acquire or make investments in other providers of product offerings that complement our business and other companies in the security industry. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: · diversion of management’s attention from running our existing business; · increased expenses, including travel, legal, administrative and compensation expenses resulting from newly hired employees; · increased costs to integrate personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired company with our own; 8 · adverse effects on our reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill associated with acquisitions; · potential disputes with sellers of acquired businesses, technologies, services or products; and · dilution to stockholders if we issue securities in any acquisition. Moreover, performance problems with an acquired business, technology, product or service could also have a material adverse impact on our reputation as a whole. In addition, any acquired business, technology, product or service could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations, and we may not achieve the benefits we expect from our acquisitions. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition and investment strategy or any individual acquisition or investment, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our limited ability to protect our intellectual property may adversely affect our ability to compete. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. A successful challenge to the ownership of our technology could materially damage our business prospects. Our technologies may infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. Licenses required by us from others may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our competitors may assert that our technologies or products infringe on their patents or proprietary rights. Problems with patents or other rights could increase the cost of our products or delay or preclude our new product development and commercialization. If infringement claims against us are deemed valid, we may not be able to obtain appropriate licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation could be costly and time-consuming but may be necessary to protect our technology license positions or to defend against infringement claims. We sometimes extend credit to our customers. Failure to collect the trade receivables or untimely collection could affect our liquidity. We extend credit to a large number of our customers while generally requiring no collateral. Generally, our customers pay in installments, with a portion of the payment upfront; a portion of the payment upon receipt of our products by our customers and before the installation and a portion of the payment after the installation of our products and upon satisfaction by our customer. Sometimes, a small portion of the payment will not be paid until after a certain period following the installation. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of those customers’ financial condition and generally have no difficulties in collecting our payments. But if we encounter future problems collecting amounts due from our clients or if we experience delays in the collection of amounts due from our clients, our liquidity could be negatively affected. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our prime contract performance and our ability to obtain future business may be harmed. 9 Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor, expose us to liability and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. The Company and Safetech are BVI companies, while Golden is a PRC company, and all of the Company’s officers and directors reside outside the United States. Therefore, certain judgments obtained against the company by its shareholders may not be enforceable in the British Virgin Islands or China. Each of the Company and Safetech is a BVI company, while Golden is a PRC company. All of the Company’s officers and directors reside outside of the United States. All or substantially all of its assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or such persons or to enforce against it or these persons the United States federal securities laws, or to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, including the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act. Risks Related to Our Industry Seasonality affects our operating results. Our sales are affected by seasonality. Our revenues are usually higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year because fewer projects are undertaken during and around the Chinese spring festival. Our success relies on our management’s ability to understand the highly evolving surveillance and security industry. The Chinese surveillance and security industry is an immature and highly evolving industry. Therefore, it is critical that our management is able to understand industry trends and make good strategic business decisions. If our management is unable to identify industry trends and act in relation to such trends, our business will suffer. If we are unable to respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and changes in our customers’ requirements and preferences, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could lose customers and market share. The electronic security systems industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Sudden changes in customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing products, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of products and services in the electronic security systems industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: 10 · enhance our existing products and services; · anticipate changing customer requirements by designing, developing, and launching new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our current and prospective customers; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of additional products and services involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. If we fail to introduce products with new technologies in a timely manner, or adapt our products to these new technologies, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that even if we are able to introduce new products or adapt our products to new technologies that our products will gain acceptance among our customers. In addition, from time to time, we or our competitors may announce new products, product enhancements or technological innovations that have the potential to replace or shorten the life cycles of our products and that may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products, resulting in inventory obsolescence. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position because of strong competition in the electronic security systems industry, and we expect this competition to continue to intensify. The electronic security systems industry is highly competitive. There are about 9,000 companies in China that engage in the business of manufacturing, designing and building surveillance and security products. In addition, since China joined the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), we also face competition from international competitors. Some of our international competitors are larger than us and possess greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products and services that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and services and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because they have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition could require us to reduce our prices, result in our receiving fewer customers orders, and result in our loss of market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to distinguish ourselves in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. 11 Our business and reputation as a manufacturer of high quality surveillance and security equipment may be adversely affected by product defects or substandard performance. We believe that we offer high quality products that are reliable and competitively priced. If our products do not perform to specifications, we might be required to redesign or recall those products or pay substantial damages. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. In addition, product defects could result in substantial product liability. We do not have product liability insurance. If we face significant liability claims, our business, financial condition, and results of operation would be adversely affected. Our product offerings involve a lengthy sales cycle and we may not anticipate sales levels appropriately, which could impair our profitability. Some of our products and services are designed for medium to large commercial, industrial and government facilities desiring to protect valuable assets and/or prevent intrusion into high security facilities in China. Given the nature of our products and the customers that purchase them, sales cycles can be lengthy as customers conduct intensive investigations and deliberate between competing technologies and providers. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with some of our products and services is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. If sales in any period fall significantly below anticipated levels, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Economic, political, legal and social uncertainties in China could harm the Company’s future interests in China. All of the Company’s future business projects and plans are expected to be located in China. As a consequence, the economic, political, legal and social conditions in China could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The legislative trend in China over the past decade has been to enhance the protection afforded to foreign investment and to allow for more active control by foreign parties of foreign invested enterprises. There can be no assurance, however, that legislation directed towards promoting foreign investment will continue. More restrictive rules on foreign investment could adversely affect the Company’s ability to expand its operations into China or repatriate any profits earned there. Some of the changes that could adversely affect the Company, include: • Level of government involvement in the economy; • Control of foreign exchange; • Methods of allocating resources; • Balance of payments position; • International trade restrictions; and 12 • International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. The legal environment in China is uncertain and your ability to legally protect your investment could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign owned enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or any of these persons. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our activity to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. 13 Public health problems that may uniquely affect the Chinese population may disrupt our operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China, where our operations are conducted, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of other health-related factors, including the following: · quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could damage our operations. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between the United States Dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. 14 Risks Related to the Market for Our Stock The Company, as a foreign private issuer, has limited reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which makes it less transparent than a United States issuer. As a foreign private issuer, the rules and regulations under the Exchange Act provide the Company with certain exemptions from the reporting obligations of United States issuers. The Company is exempt from the rules prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements, and its officers, directors and principal stockholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions. Also, the Company is not required to publish financial statements as frequently, as promptly or containing the same information as United States companies. The result is that the Company will be less transparent than a U.S. issuer. Our common stock is quoted only on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of May 31, 2006, the closing bid and asked prices for our common stock were $6.1 per share. Although our share price is currently above the penny stock level, there is no assurance, given the volatility of the OTC market, that the company share price can be maintained above the penny stock level all the time. Although since September 2005, we have met the net worth exemption from the “penny stock” definition, no assurance can be given that such exemption will be maintained. As a “penny stock”, our common stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the “Penny Stock Rule.” This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. 15 For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. One of our stockholders holds a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Mr. Guoshen Tu, who is our Chief Executive Officer and a Director, owns approximately 56% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence, giving him the ability, among other things, to elect a majority of our Board of Directors and to authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer, all of which may prevent us from implementing our business strategies. ITEM 