ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully 23 Table of Contents consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Need for Additional Financing We have incurred losses since inception, and we anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $413.2 million. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $27.1 million, which included a gain of $18.8 million on the sale of our rights and certain assets related to FARESTON®. We expect to incur significant net losses for the foreseeable future as we continue our clinical development and research and development activities. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. Our current product candidates, enobosarm (also known as Ostarine® or GTx-024) and Capesaris® (GTx-758), will require significant additional clinical development and financial resources to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in order to develop these product candidates into commercially viable products. Accordingly, we do not expect to obtain United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, approval or any other regulatory approvals to market any of our product candidates in the next twelve months, and it is possible that our product candidates will never receive any regulatory approvals. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing and commercializing small molecule drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We have financed our operations and internal growth primarily through public offerings and private placement of our common stock, as well as payments from our former collaborators. We also previously recognized product revenue from the sale of FARESTON®, the rights to which we sold to a third party in the third quarter of 2012. Currently, we have no ongoing collaborations for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result of the sale of our rights and certain assets related to FARESTON®, we also currently have no sources of revenue. If we and/or any potential future collaborators are unable to develop and commercialize any of our product candidates, if development is further delayed or is eliminated, or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we may never become profitable and we will not be successful. We will need to raise substantial additional capital and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to further delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to: •fund our operations and conduct clinical trials; •continue our research and development; •seek regulatory approval for our product candidates; and 24 Table of Contents •commercialize our product candidates, if any such product candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we estimate that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, together with interest thereon, will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have based this estimate on our current business plan and assumptions that may prove to be wrong. We could utilize our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect, and we could need additional funding sooner than currently anticipated. In any event, to complete the development of Capesaris® and seek regulatory approval for enobosarm, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: •the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities, including our ongoing, planned and any other future clinical trials of enobosarm and Capesaris®; •the terms and timing of any potential future collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; •the decision to initiate development of new potential medicines from our research and discovery activities; •the amount and timing of any licensing fees, milestone payments and royalty payments from potential future collaborators, if any; •future clinical trial results; •the cost and timing of regulatory filings and/or approvals to commercialize our product candidates and any related restrictions, limitations, and/or warnings in the label of an approved product candidate; •the cost and timing of establishing medical education, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; •the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our product candidates and any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop; •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, and the cost of defending any other litigation claims; and •the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. We do not currently have any commitments for future external funding nor do we currently have any sources of revenue. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or collaboration and licensing arrangements, or a combination of the above, as well as through interest income earned on the investment of our cash balances and short-term investments. In June 2011, we announced a workforce reduction of approximately 15% in order to reduce our operating expenses relating to our discontinued toremifene development programs. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may need to further reduce our expenditures, perhaps 25 Table of Contents significantly, to preserve our cash. Cost-cutting measures that we may take in the future may not be sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements, and they may negatively affect our business and growth prospects. To the extent we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. To the extent we raise additional funds through potential future collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our ability to raise additional funds and the terms upon which we are able to raise such funds may be adversely impacted by the outcomes of ongoing and planned clinical trials of enobosarm and Capesaris®, uncertainty regarding our financial condition and/or current economic conditions, including the effects of, disruptions to and volatility in the credit and financial markets in the United States, the European Union and other regions of the world, including those resulting from or associated with rising government debt levels. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available when we need them, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, including our SARM and selective ER alpha agonist programs, or conduct additional workforce or other expense reductions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Development of Product Candidates We and any potential future collaborators will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or if our clinical trials do not adequately demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Significant additional research and development and financial resources will be required to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our product candidates and to develop them into commercially viable products. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, can take many years to complete and has an uncertain outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. Typically, the failure rate for development candidates is high. If a product candidate fails at any stage of development, we will not have the anticipated revenues from that product candidate to fund our operations, and we will not receive any return on our investment in that product candidate. For example, we announced in May 2010 that toremifene 20 mg failed to meet its primary efficacy endpoint in our Phase III clinical trial of toremifene 20 mg for the prevention of prostate cancer in high risk men with high grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia, after we had incurred significant development costs. Even if the results of a clinical trial are positive, the efficacy and/or safety results from the trial may be insufficient to support the submission of a new drug application, or NDA, to the FDA, or if submitted, the approval of the NDA by the FDA. For example, we received a Complete Response Letter in October 2009 from the FDA regarding our NDA for toremifene 80 mg to reduce fractures in men with prostate cancer on androgen deprivation therapy, or ADT, notifying us that the FDA would not approve the NDA. We have since discontinued our toremifene development programs. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned or other future clinical trials will begin on time, or whether ongoing or planned clinical trials will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. We or any potential future collaborators may experience numerous unforeseen and/or adverse events during, or as 26 Table of Contents a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our or our potential future collaborators' ability to commercialize our product candidates, including: •regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or any potential future collaborators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site, or we may experience substantial delays in obtaining these authorizations; •preclinical or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, which may require us or any potential future collaborators to conduct additional preclinical or clinical testing or to abandon projects that we expect to be promising; •even if preclinical or clinical trial results are positive, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could nonetheless require us to conduct unanticipated additional clinical trials; •registration or enrollment in clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate, resulting in significant delays or study terminations; •we or any potential future collaborators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; •regulators or institutional review boards may suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; and •our product candidates may not have the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects. If any of these events were to occur and, as a result, we or any potential future collaborators have significant delays in or termination of clinical trials, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenue could be impaired, which would materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and growth prospects. If we or any potential future collaborators observe serious or other adverse events during the time our product candidates are in development or after our products are approved and on the market, we or any potential future collaborators may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, may be required to cease further development of such product candidates, may be denied regulatory approval of such products, may be forced to change the labeling of such products or may be required to withdraw any such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. In three Phase II clinical trials of Capesaris®, which we discontinued in February 2012, we observed venous thromboembolic events, or blood clots, in subjects treated with Capesaris® at the doses being studied in the trials (1000 mg and higher per day) and reported those events to the FDA. There were two deaths in subjects treated with Capesaris® and two deaths in subjects treated with Lupron Depot®. In February 2012, the FDA placed all of our then ongoing clinical studies of Capesaris® on full clinical hold and we suspended further enrollment into these studies and notified clinical sites to discontinue treatment of subjects with Capesaris®. In May 2012, the FDA notified us that it had removed the full clinical hold on Capesaris®. In the third quarter of 2012, we initiated a Phase II clinical trial to evaluate Capesaris®, at doses lower than those which were previously being tested in our discontinued Phase II clinical trials, as secondary hormonal therapy in men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer, or CRPC. Although our current Phase II clinical trial is evaluating Capesaris® at doses lower than those which were previously being tested in our discontinued Phase II clinical trials, we cannot be confident that we will not observe an unacceptable incidence of venous thromboembolic events or other adverse events in the current Phase II clinical trial. Our ability to develop Capesaris® as an effective secondary hormonal therapy for men with metastatic CRPC or, potentially, as a primary treatment for advanced prostate cancer used in combination with ADT is 27 Table of Contents dependent on our ability to find an appropriate dose that is both effective and safe for these patient populations. If an unacceptable incidence of venous thromboembolic events or other adverse events are observed in our current Phase II clinical trial of Capesaris®, we may be required to abandon our development of Capesaris®, in which case, we would not receive any return on our investment in that product candidate. In our Phase II clinical trials for enobosarm for the treatment of muscle wasting in patients with cancer and healthy older males and postmenopausal females, we observed mild elevations of hepatic enzymes, which in certain circumstances may lead to liver failure, in a few patients in both the placebo and enobosarm treated groups. Reductions in high-density lipoproteins have also been observed in subjects treated with enobosarm. Lower levels of high-density lipoproteins could lead to increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events. If the incidence of serious or other adverse events related to our product candidates increases in number or severity, if a regulatory authority believes that these or other events constitute an adverse effect caused by the drug, or if other effects are identified during clinical trials that we or any potential future collaborators may conduct in the future or after any of our product candidates are approved and marketed: •we or any potential future collaborators may be required to conduct additional preclinical or clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of any such approved products, reformulate any such products, or implement changes to or obtain new approvals of our contractors' manufacturing facilities; •regulatory authorities may be unwilling to approve our product candidates or may withdraw approval of our products; •we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products; •our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and •we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Any of these events could prevent approval or harm sales of the affected product candidates or products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing any such products. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If we do not establish collaborations for our product candidates or otherwise raise substantial additional capital, we will likely need to alter our development and any commercialization plans. Our strategy includes selectively partnering or collaborating with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators, and collaborations are complex and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be successful in entering into new collaborations with third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional collaborative arrangements because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing such arrangements. If we are unable to negotiate new collaborations, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce, delay, or terminate its development or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own 28 Table of Contents expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we will need to raise substantial additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenues. Any collaborative arrangements that we establish in the future may not be successful or we may otherwise not realize the anticipated benefits from these collaborations. In addition, any future collaboration arrangements may place the development and commercialization of our product candidates outside our control, may require us to relinquish important rights or may otherwise be on terms unfavorable to us. We have in the past established and intend to continue to establish collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize some of our current and future product candidates, and these collaborations may not be successful or we may otherwise not realize the anticipated benefits from these collaborations. For example, in March 2011, we and Ipsen Biopharm Limited, or Ipsen, mutually agreed to terminate our collaboration for the development and commercialization of our toremifene-based product candidate, and, as a result, we will not receive any additional milestone payments from Ipsen on account of our collaboration with Ipsen. As of the date of this report, we have no ongoing collaborations for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. In the future, we may not be able to locate third-party collaborators to develop and market our product candidates, and we may lack the capital and resources necessary to develop our product candidates alone. Dependence on collaborative arrangements subjects us to a number of risks, including: •we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our potential future collaborators may devote to our product candidates; •potential future collaborations may experience financial difficulties or changes in business focus; •we may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing and distribution rights; •should a collaborator fail to develop or commercialize one of our compounds or product candidates, we may not receive any future milestone payments and will not receive any royalties for the compound or product candidate; •business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator's business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator's willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; •under certain circumstances, a collaborator could move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and •collaborative arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which could delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. If third parties do not manufacture our product candidates in sufficient quantities, in the required timeframe, at an acceptable cost, and with appropriate quality control, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates would be delayed. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities, and we rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our product candidates. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins, if any, and our ability to develop product candidates and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. 29 Table of Contents We rely on third-party vendors for the manufacture of enobosarm drug substance. If our supply of enobosarm becomes unusable or if the contract manufacturers that we are currently utilizing to meet our supply needs for enobosarm or any future SARM product candidates prove incapable or unwilling to continue to meet our supply needs, we could experience a delay in conducting any additional clinical trials of enobosarm or any future SARM product candidates. In addition, we rely on third-party contractors for the manufacture of Capesaris® drug substance. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing or any other third-party manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If our suppliers fail to meet our requirements for Capesaris®, enobosarm or any future product candidates for any reason, we would be required to obtain alternate suppliers. Any inability to obtain alternate suppliers, including an inability to obtain approval from the FDA of an alternate supplier, would delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of these product candidates. Use of third-party manufacturers may increase the risk that we will not have adequate supplies of our product candidates or products. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks, to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: •reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; •the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; •the possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us; and •drug product supplies not meeting the requisite requirements for clinical trial use. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. Our product candidates and any products that we and/or our potential future collaborators may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. Our present or future manufacturing partners may not be able to comply with FDA-mandated current Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates. If third parties on whom we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we rely on third parties to assist with our preclinical development of product candidates. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we lose our license from the University of Tennessee Research Foundation, or UTRF, we may be unable to continue a substantial part of our business. We have licensed intellectual property rights and technology from UTRF used in a substantial part of our business. This license agreement, under which we were granted rights to SARM compounds and technologies, may be terminated by UTRF if we are in breach of our obligations under, or fail to perform any terms of, the agreement and fail to cure that breach. If this agreement is terminated, then we may lose our rights to utilize the SARM technology and intellectual property covered by that agreement to market, distribute and sell licensed products, including enobosarm, which may prevent us from continuing a substantial part of our business and may result in a serious adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and any prospects for growth. If some or all of our or our licensors' patents expire or are invalidated or are found to be unenforceable, or if some or all of our patent applications do not result in issued patents or result in patents with narrow, overbroad, or unenforceable claims, or claims that are not supported in regard to written description or enablement by the specification, or if we are prevented from asserting that the claims of an issued patent cover a product of a third party, we may be subject to competition from third parties with products in the same class of products as our product candidates or products with the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as our product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for our product candidates, as well as the methods for treating patients in the product indications using these product candidates. We will be able to protect our product candidates and the methods for treating patients in the product indications using these product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that we or our exclusive licensors own or control such valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets. Our rights to certain patents and patent applications relating to SARM compounds that we have licensed from UTRF are subject to the terms of UTRF's inter-institutional agreements with The Ohio State University, or OSU, and our rights to future related improvements in some instances are subject to UTRF's exercise of exclusive options under its agreements with OSU for such improvements. Even if our product candidates and the methods for treating patients for prescribed indications using these product candidates are covered by valid and enforceable patents and have claims with sufficient scope, disclosure and support in the specification, the patents will provide protection only for a limited amount of time. Our and our licensors' ability to obtain patents can be highly uncertain and involve complex and in some cases unsettled legal issues and factual questions. Furthermore, different countries have different procedures for obtaining patents, and patents issued in different countries provide different degrees of protection against the use of a patented invention by others. Therefore, if the issuance to us or our licensors, in a given country, of a patent covering an invention is not followed by the issuance, in other countries, of patents covering the same invention, or if any judicial interpretation of the validity, enforceability, or scope of the claims in, or the written description or enablement in, a patent issued in one country is not similar to the interpretation given to the corresponding patent issued in another country, our ability to protect our intellectual property in those countries may be limited. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may materially diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent defense and enforcement. The regulations 31 Table of Contents and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and the substantive and procedural changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act are being implemented in stages, beginning from September 16, 2011, and continuing through March 16, 2013. For example, the Leahy-Smith Act has introduced procedures making it easier for third-parties to challenge issued patents, as well as to intervene in the prosecution of patent applications. In addition, the Leahy-Smith Act will change the United States from a "first-to-invent" jurisdiction to a "first-inventor-to-file" jurisdiction and will change the definition of what constitutes prior art for an application. Finally, the Leahy-Smith Act contains new statutory provisions that still require the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to issue new regulations for their implementation and it may take the courts years to interpret the provisions of the new statute. Accordingly, it is too early to determine what effect or impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business and the protection and enforcement of our intellectual property. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Even if patents are issued to us or our licensors regarding our product candidates or methods of using them, those patents can be challenged by our competitors who can argue such patents are invalid or unenforceable, lack of utility, lack sufficient written description or enablement, or that the claims of the issued patents should be limited or narrowly construed. Patents also will not protect our product candidates if competitors devise ways of making or using these product candidates without legally infringing our patents. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies create a regulatory environment that encourages companies to challenge branded drug patents or to create non-infringing versions of a patented product in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug applications for generic substitutes. These same types of incentives encourage competitors to submit new drug applications that rely on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by the drug sponsor, providing another less burdensome pathway to approval. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it may increase our costs or prevent us from being able to commercialize our product candidates. There is a risk that we are infringing the proprietary rights of third parties because numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields that are the focus of our drug discovery, development, and manufacture and process synthesis efforts. Others might have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors' pending patent applications and issued patents and/or might have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us or our licensors, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, synthesis, commercialization, formulation or use of our product candidates. In addition, the production, manufacture, synthesis, commercialization, formulation or use of our product candidates may infringe existing patents of which we are not aware. Defending ourselves against third-party claims, including litigation in particular, 32 Table of Contents would be costly and time consuming and would divert management's attention from our business, which could lead to delays in our development or commercialization efforts. If third parties are successful in their claims, we might have to pay substantial damages or take other actions that are adverse to our business. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we might: •be prohibited from selling or licensing any product that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which the patent holder is not required to do; •be required to pay substantial royalties or other amounts, or grant a cross license to our patents to another patent holder; or •be required to redesign the formulation of a product candidate so that it does not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates If we or any potential future collaborators are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we or such collaborators will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development and commercialization are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA, other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate will prevent us or any potential future collaborator from commercializing the product candidate. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction, and we do not expect to obtain FDA or any other regulatory approvals to market any of our product candidates in the next twelve months, if at all. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. For example, on July 9, 2012 Congress enacted the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA) that, among other things, reauthorizes the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, for an additional five years. FDASIA incorporates new FDA performance goals that effectively extend by two months the time period in which the FDA is expected to review and approve certain NDAs. Although the FDA has stated that it expects to meet PDUFA's updated timing goals, it has in the past provided its managers discretion to miss them due to heightened agency workload or understaffing in the review divisions; accordingly, it remains unclear whether and to what extent the FDA will adhere to PDUFA timing goals in the future. If the FDA were to miss a PDUFA timing goal for one of our product candidates, the development and commercialization of the product candidate could be delayed. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, or FDAAA, which was enacted in September 2007, expands the FDA's authority to regulate drugs throughout the product life cycle, including enhanced authority to require post-approval studies and clinical trials. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities. This legislation, and the additional proposals if enacted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us or our potential future collaborators to 33 Table of Contents obtain approval of our product candidates. Even if the FDA approves a product candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. The approval may also impose risk evaluation mitigation strategies, or REMS, on a product if the FDA believes there is a reason to monitor the safety of the drug in the market place. REMS may include requirements for additional training for health care professionals, safety communication efforts and limits on channels of distribution, among other things. The sponsor would be required to evaluate and monitor the various REMS activities and adjust them if need be. The FDA also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval. Furthermore, the approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval varies among countries and can involve additional testing beyond that required by the FDA. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. For example, in October 2009, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA regarding our NDA for toremifene 80 mg to reduce fractures in men with prostate cancer on ADT notifying us that the FDA would not approve our NDA as a result of certain clinical deficiencies identified in the Complete Response Letter. We have since discontinued our toremifene 80 mg development program, as well as our other toremifene-based products and terminated our license and supply agreement with Orion for toremifene products. While we have met with the FDA to discuss the development program and required endpoints to obtain approval of enobosarm, there can be no assurance that the FDA will ultimately determine that data from our current pivotal Phase III clinical trials of enobosarm will be sufficient for approval of this product candidate. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the FDA will determine that the data from our ongoing clinical trial or future clinical trials of Capesaris® will be sufficient for approval of this product candidate in any indication. For example, we may observe an unacceptable incidence of adverse events in our ongoing, planned or potential future clinical trials of enobosarm or Capesaris®, which could require us to abandon the development of the affected product candidate. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we submit an application to the FDA for marketing approval of a product candidate, it may not result in marketing approval from the FDA. We do not expect to receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates that are in development in the next twelve months, if at all. The inability to obtain FDA approval or approval from comparable authorities in other countries for our product candidates would prevent us or any potential future collaborators from commercializing these product candidates in the United States or other countries. See the section entitled "Business — Government Regulation" under Part 1, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding risks associated with marketing approval, as well as risks related to potential post-approval requirements. 34 Table of Contents The "fast track" designation for development of any of our product candidates may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process and it does not increase the likelihood the product candidate will receive regulatory approval. If a product candidate is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the product candidate demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA "fast track" designation for a particular indication. Marketing applications filed by sponsors of product candidates in the fast track process may qualify for priority review under the policies and procedures offered by the FDA, but the fast track designation does not assure any such review. Although we have obtained a fast track designation from the FDA for enobosarm for the prevention and treatment of muscle wasting in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer, receipt of fast track designation may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw our fast track designation at any time. If we lose our fast track designation, the approval process may be delayed. In addition, our fast track designation does not guarantee that we will be able to take advantage of the expedited review procedures and does not increase the likelihood that enobosarm will receive any regulatory approvals. Risks Related to Commercialization The commercial success of any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop will depend upon the market and the degree of market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. Any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate material product revenues or receive royalties to the extent we currently anticipate, and we may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: •efficacy and safety results in clinical trials; •the prevalence and severity of any side effects; •potential advantages over alternative treatments; •whether the products we commercialize remain a preferred course of treatment; •the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices; •relative convenience and ease of administration; •the strength of marketing and distribution support; and •sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. 35 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or establish and maintain agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate product revenue from such candidates. We have limited experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In the event one of our product candidates is approved, we will need to establish sales and marketing capabilities or establish and maintain agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates. We may be unable to build our own sales and marketing capabilities, and there are risks involved with entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services, which could delay the commercialization of any of our product candidates if approved for commercial sale. In addition, to the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. If we and/or any potential future collaborators are unable to obtain reimbursement or experience a reduction in reimbursement from third-party payors for products we sell, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. Sales of products developed by us and/or any potential future collaborators are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors. Changes in the reimbursement policies of these third-party payors that reduce reimbursements for any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop and sell could negatively impact our future operating and financial results. Medicare coverage and reimbursement of prescription drugs exists under Medicare Part D for oral drug products capable of self-administration by patients. Our oral drug product candidates would likely be covered by Medicare Part D (if covered by Medicare at all). In March 2010, the United States Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. This health care reform legislation will increase the number of individuals who receive health insurance coverage and will close a gap in drug coverage under Medicare Part D. The legislation, however, also implemented cost containment and other measures that could adversely affect revenues from sales of product candidates, including an increase in drug rebates manufacturers must pay under Medicaid for brand name prescription drugs and extension of these rebates to Medicaid managed care. Pharmaceutical manufacturers and importers of brand name prescription drugs are assessed a fee based on our proportionate share of sales of brand name prescription drugs to certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, made in the preceding year if such sales exceed a defined threshold. Since 2011, manufacturers have been required to provide a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs sold to beneficiaries who fall within a gap that exists in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the "donut hole"). The health care reform legislation has been subject to political and judicial challenge. In 2012, the Supreme Court considered the constitutionality of certain provisions of the law. The court upheld as constitutional the mandate for individuals to obtain health insurance but held that the provision allowing the federal government to withhold certain Medicaid funds to states that do not expand state Medicaid programs was unconstitutional. The impact of the court's ruling remains uncertain. Political and judicial challenges to the law may continue in the wake of the court's ruling. Economic pressure on state budgets may result in states increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for drugs. State Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization for 36 Table of Contents use of drugs where supplemental rebates are not provided. Private health insurers and managed care plans are likely to continue challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many of these third-party payors may limit reimbursement for newly-approved health care products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop or sell. These cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we or any potential future collaborators may develop or sell, which would result in lower product revenues or royalties payable to us. Similar cost containment initiatives exist in countries outside of the United States, particularly in the countries of the European Union, where the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can extend well beyond the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product and may require us or any potential future collaborators to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our product candidates or products to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in our or a potential future collaborators' commercialization efforts. Third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit reimbursement for newly-approved health care products. Recently budgetary pressures in many European Union countries are also causing governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates. If budget pressures continue, governments may implement additional cost containment measures. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for products that we or any potential future collaborators may develop or sell, which would result in lower product revenues or royalties payable to us. Another development that could affect the pricing of drugs would be if the Secretary of Health and Human Services allowed drug reimportation into the United States. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 gives discretion to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to allow drug reimportation into the United States under some circumstances from foreign countries, including from countries where the drugs are sold at a lower price than in the United States. If the circumstances were met and the Secretary exercised the discretion to allow for the direct reimportation of drugs, it could decrease the price we or any potential future collaborators receive for any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop, negatively affecting our revenues and prospects for profitability. Health care reform measures could hinder or prevent our product candidates' commercial success. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting health care reform, as evidenced by the enactment in the United States of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act in 2010. Federal and state legislatures within the United States and foreign governments will likely continue to consider changes to existing health care legislation. These changes adopted by governments may adversely impact our business by lowering the price of health care products in the United States and elsewhere. We operate in a highly regulated industry and new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to health care availability, method of delivery or payment for health care products and services, or sales, marketing and pricing practices could negatively impact our business, operations and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to our prior commercial sales of FARESTON® and the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and we will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any product that we may develop. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for any product candidates or products; •injury to our reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •costs to defend the related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients; •loss of revenue; and •the inability to commercialize any products for which we obtain or hold marketing approvals. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials and any commercial products up to a $30 million annual aggregate limit. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products than any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated.* We face competition from commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop. Competition could result in reduced sales and pricing pressure on our product candidates, if approved, which in turn would reduce our ability to generate meaningful revenue and have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, significant delays in the development of our product candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us and impair any ability to commercialize our product candidates. Various products are currently marketed or used off-label for some of the diseases and conditions that we are targeting in our pipeline, and a number of companies are or may be developing new treatments. These product uses, as well as promotional efforts by competitors and/or clinical trial results of competitive products, could significantly diminish any ability to market and sell any products that we and/or any potential future collaborators may develop. With respect to our SARM program, there are other SARM product candidates in development that may compete with enobosarm and any future SARM product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, including SARMs in development from Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline plc. Pfizer Inc., Eli Lilly and Company and Amgen Inc. have myostatin inhibitors in development that may compete with enobosarm if approved for commercial sale. In addition, Cytokinetics, Inc. is developing a troponin activator with a muscle specific mechanism in Phase II 38 Table of Contents studies, with a focus on neurological muscle diseases (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and myasthenia gravis) and Novartis AG is developing a human monoclonal antibody for various muscle indications. Moreover, there are other categories of drugs in development, including ghrelin receptor agonists, growth hormone, secretagogues, inflammatory modulators and other agents, that may have some muscle activity. Helsinn Group is developing anamorelin, a ghrelin receptor agonist, in Phase III clinical trials for treatment of cancer cachexia in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Appetite stimulants such as Megace® (megestrol acetate) and dronabinol are used off-label for the treatment of weight loss and the treatment of loss of appetite in patients with cancer. We are developing Capesaris® for secondary hormonal therapy in men with metastatic CRPC, and, potentially, as a primary treatment for advanced prostate cancer used in combination with androgen deprivation therapy. There are various products approved or under clinical development to treat men with advanced prostate cancer who have metastatic CRPC which may compete with Capesaris®. Dendreon Corporation markets and sells Provenge®, an autologous cellular immunotherapy, for the treatment of asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer. Medivation, Inc. has received approval for Xtandi®, an oral androgen receptor antagonist, for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer in men previously treated with docetaxel. Medivation continues to develop Xtandi® for men with metastatic CRPC prior to receiving chemotherapy. Zytiga®, sold by Johnson & Johnson, has been approved for the treatment of metastatic CRPC prior in patients who have received prior chemotherapy and recently received approval for the treatment of metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer prior to chemotherapy. Millennium: The Takeda Oncology Company is developing TAK-700 for the treatment of men with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer prior to chemotherapy and post docetaxel. Capesaris® is being developed as a treatment for this same patient population prior to the initiation of chemotherapy. Aragon Pharmaceuticals has developed a second generation anti-androgen (ARN-509) that is currently being evaluated in Phase II studies in men with progressive, advanced prostate cancer. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Risks Related to Employees and Growth If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists. If we are not able to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, particularly Dr. Mitchell S. Steiner, we may not be able to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. All of our employees are at-will employees and can terminate their employment at any time. We do not carry "key person" insurance covering members of senior management, other than $22.5 million of insurance covering Dr. Steiner. In December 2009, we announced a reduction of approximately 26% of our workforce in order to reduce our operating expenses in connection with the receipt of the Complete Response Letter 39 Table of Contents regarding our NDA for toremifene 80 mg. We also announced a reduction of approximately 15% of our workforce in June 2011 in connection with our decision to discontinue the development of toremifene 80 mg and toremifene 20 mg. These and any future workforce reductions may negatively affect our ability to retain or attract talented employees. We will need to hire additional employees in order to commercialize our product candidates in the future. Any inability to manage future growth could harm our ability to commercialize our product candidates, increase our costs and adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. In order to commercialize our product candidates in the future, we may need to hire experienced sales and marketing personnel to sell and market those product candidates we decide to commercialize, and we will need to expand the number of our managerial, operational, financial and other employees to support commercialization. Competition exists for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be so in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: •delays in the initiation, enrollment or completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials of enobosarm and Capesaris®, or negative or inconclusive results reported in any of our ongoing and planned clinical trials of enobosarm and Capesaris®; •reports of unacceptable incidences of adverse events observed in any of our ongoing and planned clinical trials of enobosarm and Capesaris®; •our ability to enter into new collaborative arrangements with respect to our product candidates; •the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing or other arrangements that we may establish; •our ability to raise additional capital to carry through with our clinical development plans and current and future operations and the terms of any related financing arrangements; •the timing of achievement of, or failure to achieve, our and any potential future collaborators' clinical, regulatory and other milestones, such as the commencement of clinical development, the completion of a clinical trial or the receipt of regulatory approval; •announcement of FDA approval or non-approval of our product candidates or delays in or adverse events during the FDA review process; •actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates or products, our clinical trials or our sales and marketing activities, including regulatory actions requiring or 40 Table of Contents leading to restrictions, limitations and/or warnings in the label of an approved product candidate; •the commercial success of any product approved by the FDA or its foreign counterparts; •introductions or announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our potential future collaborators, or our competitors, and the timing of these introductions or announcements; •market conditions for equity investments in general, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in particular; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •changes in the structure or reimbursement policies of health care payment systems; •any intellectual property infringement lawsuit involving us; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop regarding our common stock; •sales of large blocks of our common stock; •sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; •changes in accounting principles; and •the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. The stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced significant volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The financial markets continue to face significant uncertainty, resulting in a decline in investor confidence and concerns about the proper functioning of the securities markets, which decline in general investor confidence has resulted in depressed stock prices for many companies notwithstanding the lack of a fundamental change in their underlying business models or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and results of operations and divert management's attention and resources, which could result in delays of our clinical trials or commercialization efforts. Our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders have the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. As of December 31, 2012, our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially owned approximately 63.4% of our outstanding common stock, and our executive officers and directors alone beneficially owned approximately 38.3% of our 41 Table of Contents outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may or will have the ability to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions include: •a classified Board of Directors; •a prohibition on actions by our stockholders by written consent; •the ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a "poison pill" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors; and •limitations on the removal of directors. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Finally, these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could drop substantially, even if our business is doing well. For the 12-month period ended December 31, 2012, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market was 284,047 shares. As a result, future sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, we had 62,818,424 shares of common stock outstanding. Moreover, J.R. Hyde, III and Oracle Partners, L.P., two of our largest stockholders, and certain of their affiliates, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the approximately 10.8 million shares of common stock they hold in the aggregate which are subject to registration rights or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders; however, as a non-affiliate, Oracle Partners, L.P., is not currently required to register its shares of common stock prior to a public sale of securities. If any of these large stockholders were to sell large blocks of shares in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could drop substantially. 42 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 