Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, industry and common stock are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. The discussion below sets forth all of such risks and uncertainties that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Any of the following risks, if realized, could materially and adversely affect our revenues, operating results, profitability, financial condition, prospects for future growth and overall business, as well as the value of our common stock. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, including a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations and liquidity. Risks Relating to Our Company We depend on the U.S. Government for a substantial amount of our sales and if we do not continue to experience demand for our products within the U.S. Government, our business may fail. Moreover, our growth in the last few years has been attributable in large part to U.S. wartime spending in support of troop deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. If such troop levels are reduced, our business may be harmed. We primarily serve the defense market and our sales are highly concentrated within the U.S. government. Customers for our products include the U.S. Department of Defense, including the U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Army Tank Automotive and Armaments Command (TACOM), and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Government tax revenues and budgetary constraints, which fluctuate from time to time, can affect budgetary allocations for these customers. Many government agencies have in the past experienced budget deficits that have led to decreased spending in defense, law enforcement and other military and security areas. Our results of operations may be subject to substantial period-to-period fluctuations because of these and other factors affecting military, law enforcement and other governmental spending. U.S. defense spending historically has been cyclical. Defense budgets have received their strongest support when perceived threats to national security raise the level of concern over the country’s safety, such as in Iraq and Afghanistan. As these threats subside, spending on the military tends to decrease. Accordingly, while U.S. Department of Defense funding has grown rapidly over the past few years, there is no assurance that this trend will continue. Rising budget deficits, the cost of the war on terror and increasing costs for domestic programs continue to put pressure on all areas of discretionary spending, and the new administration has signaled that this pressure will most likely impact the defense budget. A decrease in U.S. government defense spending, including as a result of planned significant U.S. troop level reductions in Iraq or Afghanistan, or changes in spending allocation could result in our government contracts being reduced, delayed or terminated. Reductions in our government contracts, unless offset by other military and commercial opportunities, could adversely affect our ability to sustain and grow our future sales and earnings. Our revenues historically have been concentrated in a small number of contracts obtained through the U.S. Department of Defense and the loss of, or reduction in estimated revenue under, any of these contracts, or the inability to contract further with the U.S. Department of Defense could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. Our revenues historically have been generated by a small number of contracts. During 2009, four contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense organizations represented approximately 72% of our revenue. During 2008, four contracts with the U.S. Department of Defense organizations and several purchase orders from JCB represented approximately 97% of our revenue. While we believe we have satisfied and continue to satisfy the terms of these contracts, there can be no assurance that we will continue to receive orders under such contracts. Our government customers generally have the right to cancel any contract, or ongoing or planned orders under any contract, at any time. If any of our significant contracts were canceled, or our customers reduce their orders under any of these contracts, or we were unable to contract further with the U.S. Department of Defense, our revenues could significantly decrease and our business could be severely harmed. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are required to redeem any outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, of which $15.0 million in stated value is outstanding, as of April 1, 2011. If we do not generate, raise or obtain access to funds sufficient to redeem our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock or if we fail to redeem such Preferred Stock, our cash flow could be adversely affected and our business significantly harmed. On May 22, 2009, we entered into a Settlement Agreement, Waiver and Amendment with the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, pursuant to which, among other things, we have agreed to redeem $7,500,000 in stated value of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock by December 31, 2009. We did not effect such redemption. As a result, in lieu of any other remedies or damages available to the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the redemption price payable by us increased by an amount equal to 10% of the stated value, and we amended our certificate of incorporation to (i) reduce the conversion price of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock from $2.00 to $0.50 (which increased the number of shares of our common stock into which the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible) and (ii) grant the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, the right to elect two persons to serve on our board of directors. We currently have outstanding $15.0 million in stated value of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. The terms of such stock provide that we are to redeem any such stock outstanding as of April 1, 2011, as extended from December 31, 2010 pursuant to a waiver agreement between us and the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock dated April 8, 2010. We are seeking to raise capital or obtain access to funds sufficient to timely redeem our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. If we are not successful and we do not timely redeem such preferred stock, our cash flow could be adversely affected and our business significantly harmed. For additional information, please refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. We are required to comply with complex laws and regulations relating to the procurement, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, and the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations, and penalties and sanctions for any non-compliance could adversely affect our business. We are required to comply with laws and regulations relating to the administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and impose added costs on our business. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following: • The Federal Acquisition Regulations: Along with agency regulations supplemental to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts; • The Truth in Negotiations Act: Requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • The Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles: Imposes accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; and • Laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data. We engage in international work falling under the jurisdiction of U.S. export control laws. Failure to comply with these control regimes can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Our contracting agency customers periodically review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts. We also routinely perform internal reviews. As a result of these reviews, we may learn that we are not in compliance with all of the terms of our contracts. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including: • Termination of contracts; • Forfeiture of profits; 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses; • Suspension of payments; • Fines; and • Suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition, and/or operating results could be materially harmed. In addition, we are subject to the industrial security regulations, protocols, and procedures of the U.S. Government as set forth in the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), which are designed to protect and safeguard classified information from unauthorized release to individuals and organizations not possessing a security clearance or the requisite level of clearance necessary to access that information. Accordingly, any failure to adhere to the requirements of the NISPOM could expose us to severe legal and administrative consequences, including, but not limited to, our suspension or debarment from government contracts, the revocation of our clearance, and the termination of our government contracts, the occurrence of any of which could substantially harm our existing business and preclude us from competing for or receiving future government contracts. Government contracts are usually awarded through a competitive bidding process that entails risks not present in the acquisition of commercial contracts. A significant portion of our contracts and task orders with the U.S. government is awarded through a competitive bidding process. We expect that much of the business we seek in the foreseeable future will continue to be awarded through competitive bidding. Budgetary pressures and changes in the procurement process have caused many government customers to increasingly purchase goods and services through indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts, General Services Administration (GSA) schedule contracts and other government-wide acquisition contracts (GWACs). These contracts, some of which are awarded to multiple contractors, have increased competition and pricing pressure, requiring us to make sustained post- award efforts to realize revenue under each such contract. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including without limitation: • the need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we may spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; • the need to estimate accurately the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and • the expense and delay that may arise if our or our partners’ competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us or our partners pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected, and that could cause our actual results to be adversely affected. In addition, upon the expiration of a contract, if the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process. There can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract, and the termination or non-renewal of any of our significant contracts would cause our actual results to be adversely affected. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS The U.S. government may reform its procurement or other practices in a manner adverse to us. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government or its agencies, we believe that the success and development of our business will depend on our continued successful participation in federal contracting programs. The current administration has signed a Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies on Government Contracting, which orders significant changes to government contracting, including the review of existing federal contracts to eliminate waste and the issuance of government-wide guidance to implement reforms aimed at cutting wasteful spending and fraud. The federal procurement reform called for in the Memorandum requires the heads of several federal agencies to develop and issue guidance on review of existing government contracts and authorizes that any contracts identified as wasteful or otherwise inefficient be modified or cancelled. If any of our contracts were to be modified or cancelled, our actual results could be adversely affected and we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new U.S. Government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any modification or cancellation of our contracts. In addition, there may be substantial costs or management time required to respond to government review of any of our current contracts, which could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Further, if the ordered reform of the U.S. Government’s procurement practices involves the adoption of new cost-accounting standards or the requirement that competitors submit bids or perform work through teaming arrangements, that could be costly to satisfy or could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. The reform may also involve the adoption of new contracting methods to GSA or other government-wide contracts, or new standards for contract awards intended to achieve certain socio-economic or other policy objectives, such as establishing new set-aside programs for small or minority-owned businesses. In addition, the U.S. government may face restrictions from other new legislation or regulations, as well as pressure from government employees and their unions, on the nature and amount of services the U.S. government may obtain from private contractors. These changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and, as a result, could harm our operating results. Our contracts with the U.S. government and its agencies are subject to audits and cost adjustments. Unfavorable government audits could force us to adjust previously reported operating results, could affect future operating results and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors’ incurred costs, administrative processes and systems. Certain of these agencies, including the DCAA, review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchase, property, estimation, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with government requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts. Therefore, an unfavorable outcome of an audit by the DCAA or another government agency could cause actual results to be adversely affected and differ materially from those anticipated. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these events could cause our actual results to be adversely affected. A portion of our business depends upon obtaining and maintaining required security clearances, and our failure to do so could result in termination of certain of our contracts or cause us to be unable to bid or re-bid on certain contracts. Obtaining and maintaining personal security clearances (PCLs) for employees involves a lengthy process, and it can be difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain or retain security clearances, or if such employees who hold security clearances terminate their employment with us, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS terminate their contract with us or decide not to exercise available options, or to not renew it. To the extent we are not able to engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts, which could adversely affect our business. A facility security clearance (FCL) is an administrative determination by the Defense Security Service (DSS), a U.S. Department of Defense component, that a particular contractor facility has the requisite level of security, procedures, and safeguards to handle classified information requirements for access to classified information. Our ability to obtain and maintain FCLs has a direct impact on our ability to compete for and perform U.S. government contracts, the performance of which requires access to classified information. Our inability to so obtain or maintain any facility security clearance level could result in the termination, non-renewal or our inability to obtain certain U.S. government contracts, which would reduce our revenues and harm our business. We may not realize the full amount of revenues reflected in our backlog, which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. There can be no assurances that our backlog estimates will result in actual revenues in any particular fiscal period because our customers may modify or terminate projects and contracts and may decide not to exercise contract options. We define backlog as the future revenue we expect to receive from our contracts. We include potential orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ contracts. Our revenue estimates for a particular contract are based, to a large extent, on the amount of revenue we have recently recognized on that contract, our experience in utilizing capacity on similar types of contracts, and our professional judgment. Our revenue estimate for a contract included in backlog can be lower than the revenue that would result from our customers utilizing all remaining contract capacity. Our backlog includes estimates of revenues the receipt of which require future government appropriation, option exercise by our clients and/or is subject to contract modification or termination. At December 31, 2009, our backlog was approximately $45.0 million, of which we estimate will all be realized in 2010. These estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts, and we believe such estimates to be reasonable. However, we believe that the receipt of revenues reflected in our backlog estimate for the following twelve months will generally be more certain than our backlog estimate for periods thereafter. If we do not realize a substantial amount of our backlog, our operations could be harmed and our future revenues could be significantly reduced. U.S. government contracts often contain provisions that are typically not found in commercial contracts and that are unfavorable to us, which could adversely affect our business. U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the U.S. government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including without limitation, allowing the U.S. government to: • terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default; • establish limitations on future services that can be offered to prospective customers based on conflict of interest regulations; • reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; • decline to make orders under existing contracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; and • claim intellectual property rights in products provided by us. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS The ownership, control or influence of our company by foreigners could result in the termination, non-renewal of or our inability to obtain certain U.S. government contracts, which would reduce our revenues and harm our business. We are subject to industrial security regulations of the U.S. Department of Defense and other federal agencies that are designed to safeguard against unauthorized access by foreigners and others to classified and other sensitive information. If we were to come under foreign ownership, control or influence, our clearances could be revoked and our U.S. government customers could terminate, or decide not to renew, our contracts, and such a situation could also impair our ability to obtain new contracts and subcontracts. Any such actions would reduce our revenues and harm our business. We depend on our suppliers and one, in particular, currently provides us with approximately 42% of our supply needs. If we cannot obtain certain components for our products or we lose any of our key suppliers, we would have to develop alternative designs that could increase our costs or delay our operations. We depend upon a number of suppliers for components of our products. Of these suppliers, Action Group supplied approximately 42% of the total purchases during the year ended December 31, 2009. Moreover, Action Group supplied all of our steel pieces and hardware. There is an inherent risk that certain components of our products will be unavailable for prompt delivery or, in some cases, discontinued. We have only limited control over any third-party manufacturer as to quality controls, timeliness of production, deliveries and various other factors. Should the availability of certain components be compromised through the loss of, or impairment of the relationship with, any of our key suppliers or otherwise, it could force us to develop alternative designs using other components, which could add to the cost of goods sold and compromise delivery commitments. If we are unable to obtain components in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost, or at all, we would need to select new suppliers, redesign or reconstruct processes we use to build our transparent and opaque armored products. We may not be able to manufacture one or more of our products for a period of time, which could materially adversely affect our business, results from operations and financial condition. If we fail to keep pace with the ever-changing market of security-related defense products, our revenues and financial condition will be negatively affected. The security-related defense product market is rapidly changing, with evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to introduce new products, designs, technologies and features to meet changing customer requirements and emerging industry standards; however, there can be no assurance that we will successfully introduce new products or features to our existing products or develop new products that will achieve market acceptance. Any delay or failure of these products to achieve market acceptance would adversely affect our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. Should we fail to keep pace with the ever-changing nature of the security-related defense product market, our revenues and financial condition will be negatively affected. We believe that, in order to remain competitive in the future, we will need to continue to invest financial resources to develop new and adapt or modify our existing offerings and technologies, including through internal research and development, acquisitions and joint ventures or other teaming arrangements. These expenditures could divert our attention and resources from other projects, and we cannot be sure that these expenditures will ultimately lead to the timely development of new offerings and technologies. Due to the design complexity of our products, we may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. Any delays could result in increased costs of development or deflect resources from other projects. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. The failure of our technology to gain market acceptance could significantly reduce our revenues and harm our business. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be subject to personal liability claims for our products and if our insurance is not sufficient to cover such claims, our expenses may increase substantially. Our products are used in applications where the failure to use our products properly or their malfunction could result in bodily injury or death, and we may be subject to personal liability claims. Although we currently maintain general liability insurance which includes $1 million of product liability coverage, our insurance may not be adequate to cover such claims. As a result, a significant lawsuit could adversely affect our business. We may be exposed to liability for personal injury or property damage claims relating to the use of our products. Any future claim against us for personal injury or property damage could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and result in negative publicity. We currently maintain insurance for this type of liability as well as seek Support Antiterrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (also known as the SAFETY Act) certification for our products where we deem appropriate. However, although we maintain insurance coverage, we may experience legal claims outside of our insurance coverage, or in excess of our insurance coverage, or that insurance will not cover. Even if we are not found liable, the costs of defending a lawsuit can be high. We are subject to substantial competition. We are subject to significant competition that could harm our ability to win business and increase the price pressure on our products. We face strong competition from a wide variety of firms, including large, multinational, defense and aerospace firms. Most of our competitors have considerably greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do, which may make it difficult to win new contracts and we may not be able to compete successfully. Certain competitors operate larger facilities and have longer operating histories and presence in key markets, greater name recognition and larger customer bases. As a result, these competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Moreover, we may not have sufficient resources to undertake the continuing research and development necessary to remain competitive. We must comply with environmental regulations or we may have to pay expensive penalties or clean up costs. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, and regulations regarding protection of the environment, including air, water, and soil. Our manufacturing business involves the use, handling, storage, discharge and disposal of, hazardous or toxic substances or wastes to manufacture our products. We must comply with certain requirements for the use, management, handling, and disposal of these materials. If we are found responsible for any hazardous contamination, we may have to pay expensive fines or penalties or perform costly clean-up. Even if we are charged, and later found not responsible, for such contamination or clean up, the cost of defending the charges could be high. Authorities may also force us to suspend production, alter our manufacturing processes, or stop operations if we do not comply with these laws and regulations. We may not be able to adequately safeguard our intellectual property rights and trade secrets from unauthorized use, and we may become subject to claims that we infringe on others’ intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks, and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to preserve our proprietary rights to our products and production processes. We currently have five utility and one provisional U.S. pending patent applications. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. We have not emphasized, and do not presently intend to emphasize, patents as a source of significant competitive advantage, however, if we are issued patents we intend to seek to enforce them as commercially appropriate. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS These measures afford only limited protection and may not preclude competitors from developing products or processes similar or superior to ours. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may face other obstacles to enforcing our intellectual property rights outside the United States including the ability to enforce judgments, the possibility of conflicting judgments among courts and tribunals in different jurisdictions and locating, hiring and supervising local counsel in such other countries. Although we implement protective measures and intend to defend our proprietary rights, these efforts may not be successful. From time to time, we may litigate within the United States or abroad to enforce our licensed patents, to protect our trade secrets and know-how or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights and the proprietary rights of others. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights could be expensive, require management’s attention and might not bring us timely or effective relief. Furthermore, third parties may assert that our products or processes infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. Our patents, if granted, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Although there are no pending or threatened intellectual property lawsuits against us, we may face litigation or infringement claims in the future. Infringement claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources even if we ultimately prevail. A third party claiming infringement may also obtain an injunction or other equitable relief, which could effectively block the distribution or sale of allegedly infringing products. Although we may seek licenses from third parties covering intellectual property that we are allegedly infringing, we may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. We depend on management and other key personnel and we may not be able to execute our business plan without their services. Our success and our business strategy depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain key management and operating personnel. Such individuals are in high demand and are often subject to competing employment offers. We depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued participation of our executive officers and other key employees. We presently maintain “key man” insurance on Anthony Piscitelli, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe that, as our activities increase and change in character, additional experienced personnel will be required to implement our business plan. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be able to hire them when required, or have the ability to retain them. We may partner with foreign entities, and domestic entities with foreign contacts, which may affect our business plans by increasing our costs. We recognize that there may be opportunities for increased product sales in both the domestic and global defense markets. We have recently initiated plans to strategically team with foreign entities as well as domestic entities with foreign business contacts in order to better compete for both domestic and foreign military contracts. In order to implement these plans, we may incur substantial costs which may include additional research and development, prototyping, hiring personnel with specialized skills, implementing and maintaining technology control plans, technical data export licenses, production, product integration, marketing, warehousing, finance charges, licensing, tariffs, transportation and other costs. In the event that working with foreign entities and/or domestic entities with foreign business contacts proves to be unsuccessful, this strategy may ineffectively use our resources which may affect our profitability and the costs associated with such work may preclude us from pursuing alternative opportunities. We are presently classified as a small business and the loss of our small business status may adversely affect our ability to compete for government contracts. We are presently classified as a small business as determined by the Small Business Administration based upon the North American Industry Classification Systems (NAICS) industry and product specific codes which are regulated in the United States by the Small Business Administration. While we do not presently derive a substantial portion of our business from contracts which are set-aside for small businesses, we are able to bid on small business set-aside contracts as well as contracts which are open to non-small business entities. It is also possible that we may become more reliant upon small business set-aside contracts. Our continuing growth may cause us to lose our designation as a small business, and additionally, as the NAICS codes are periodically revised, it is possible that we may lose our status as a small business and may sustain an adverse impact 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS on our current competitive advantage. The loss of small business status could adversely impact our ability to compete for government contracts, maintain eligibility for special small business programs and limit our ability to partner with other business entities which are seeking to team with small business entities as may be required under a specific contract. We intend to pursue international sales opportunities which may require export licenses and controls and result in the commitment of significant resources and capital. In order to pursue international sales opportunities, we have initiated a program to obtain product classifications, commodity jurisdictions, licenses, technology control plans, technical data export licenses and export related programs. Due to our diverse products, it is possible that some products may be subject to classification under the United States State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). In the event that a product is classified as an ITAR-controlled item, we will be required to obtain an ITAR export license. While we believe that we will be able to obtain such licenses, the denial of required licenses and/or the delay in obtaining such licenses may have a significant adverse impact on our ability to sell products internationally. Alternatively, our products may be subject to classification under the United States Commerce Department’s Export Administration Regulations (EAR). We also anticipate that we may be required to comply with international regulations, tariffs and controls and we intend to work closely with experienced freight forwarders and advisors. We anticipate that an internal compliance program for international sales will require the commitment of significant resources and capital. Increases in our international sales may expose us to unique and potentially greater risks than are presented in our domestic business, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. If our international sales grow, we may be exposed to certain unique and potentially greater risks than are presented in our domestic business. International business is sensitive to changes in the budgets and priorities of international customers, which may be driven by potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, regional and local economic and political factors, as well as U.S. foreign policy. International sales will also expose us to local government laws, regulations and procurement regimes which may differ from U.S. Government regulation, including import-export control, exchange control, investment and repatriation of earnings, as well as to varying currency and other economic risks. International contracts may also require the use of foreign representatives and consultants or may require us to commit to financial support obligations, known as offsets, and provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we could experience award and funding delays on international projects or could incur losses on such projects, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and investments, and these activities involve risks and uncertainties. In pursuing our business strategies, we continually review, evaluate and consider potential investments and acquisitions. In evaluating such transactions, we are required to make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets, and the risks and cost of potential liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions and investments involve certain other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses, the challenges in achieving strategic objectives and other benefits expected from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of our attention and resources from our operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. The outcome of litigation in which we have been named as a defendant is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We are defendants in a number of litigation matters. These matters may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters to which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims, demands or investigations could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Please see “Business — Legal Proceedings” below. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Furthermore, changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain sales or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, changes in the geographic mix of our sales could also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense and profitability. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report accurately our financial results. This could have a material adverse effect on our share price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide accurate financial reports. We completed documenting and testing our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on that assessment. As a result of the material weaknesses identified during the course of our evaluation of our controls and procedures, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and that such information required to be disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. We identified material weaknesses in our period-end financial close processes and general computing controls. To address these material weaknesses, we intend to engage outside experts to provide counsel and guidance in areas where we cannot economically maintain the required expertise internally. Please see Part II. Item 9A. for further discussion. There can be no assurance that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that those controls will be adequate in all cases to uncover inaccurate or misleading financial information that could be reported by members of management. If our controls failed to identify any misreporting of financial information or our management or independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our shares could drop significantly. In addition, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the stock exchange upon which our common stock may be listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect stockholders. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • cyclical nature of defense spending; • interest rate changes; • changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the defense industry in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; • general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism; and • other matters discussed in Risk Factors. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock could contribute to the loss of all or part of an investor’s investment in our company. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and consequently your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Agreements governing future indebtedness will likely contain similar restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in the common stock of our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your common stock at a profit. In addition, under the Certificate of Designations for our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, an affirmative vote at a meeting duly called or the written consent without a meeting of the holders of such preferred stock representing at least a majority of then outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is required for us to pay dividends or any other distribution on our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; • provide that directors may only be removed “for cause” and only with the approval of 66 2/3 percent of our stockholders; • provide that only our board of directors can fill vacancies on the board of directors; • require super-majority voting to amend our bylaws or specified provisions in our certificate of incorporation; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; • limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit common stockholder action by written consent, which requires all common stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, amend, or repeal our bylaws, subject to the rights of our stockholders to do the same by super-majority vote of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These and other provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and may limit the ability of stockholders to remove our current management or approve transactions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interests and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Shares of stock issuable pursuant to our stock options, warrant and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of April 12, 2010, we had outstanding stock options to purchase an aggregate of 2,330,000 shares of common stock under our 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,448,681 shares of common stock. In addition, we have 2,082,500 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and 30,000,000 shares reserved for issuance upon the conversion of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Our outstanding warrants and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock also contain provisions that increase, subject to limited exceptions, the number of shares of common stock that may be acquired upon the conversion or exercise of such securities in the event we issue (or are deemed to have issued) shares of our common stock at a per share price that is less than their then existing exercise price, in the case of the warrants, and conversion price, in the case of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. The exercise of the stock options and warrants would further reduce a stockholder’s percentage voting and ownership interest. Further, the stock options and warrants are likely to be exercised when our common stock is trading at a price that is higher than the exercise price of these options and warrants, and we would be able to obtain a higher price for our common stock than we will receive under such options and warrants. The exercise, or potential exercise, of these options and warrants or conversion of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional financing. Future sales, or the availability for sale, of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. We have registered shares of our common stock that are subject to outstanding stock options, or reserved for issuance under our stock option plan, which shares can generally be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. Pursuant to a settlement with the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in May 2009, we also have registered the resale of up to 5,695,505 shares of our common stock and intend to register an additional 2,115,000 shares of our common stock held by such preferred stockholders. Sales, or the availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. The continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex is subject to compliance with their continued listing requirements. While we have not received any notice of an intent to delist our common stock, if such stock were delisted, the ability of investors in our common stock to make transactions in such stock would be limited. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange. Continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex requires us to meet continued listing requirements set forth in the NYSE Amex’s Company Guide. These requirements include both quantitative and qualitative standards. While we have not received any notice of an intent to delist our common stock, investors should be aware that if the NYSE Amex were to delist our common stock from quotation on its exchange, this would limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our common stock. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS 