ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that appear in this on Form 10-K or that we have made or will make elsewhere. Risks related to Our Business Our business may be harmed if the Satellite Operating Entities upon which we rely fail to perform their obligations. We provide our services primarily over broadband satellite. Pursuant to the technical services agreement between CEC and CCLX, CEC provides technical services to CCLX, which is licensed to provide value-added satellite broadband services in the PRC and to the Beijing Branch (“CCLBJ”) of ChinaCast Co. Ltd. (“CCL”) (CCLX and CCLBJ sometimes referred to as the “Satellite Operating Entities”). CEC provides its technical services to customers of the Satellite Operating Entities, whom it considers to be its own customers. CEC also engages the Satellite Operating Entities to provide the required satellite broadband service when a customer in China engages CEC directly. We have management control over, but do not own directly or indirectly, CCLX or its parent, CCL. We have no management control over CCL other than the operation of CCLBJ. Our Vice Chairman Yin Jianping owns 20% of Tibet Tiantai Investment Management Co., Ltd., a company that owns 70% of CCL. CCL owns 90% of CCLX. Although the technical services agreement and the pledge agreements executed by the stockholders of CCL and CCLX in our favor contain contractual safeguards to protect our interests, these safeguards may not be enforceable or effective. We have no other legal control over the Satellite Operating Entities. As such, we are dependent on the due performance by the Satellite Operating Entities of their obligations, and if they fail to perform their obligations under or terminate the technical services agreement between them, we will be unable to provide our services. We and the Satellite Operating Entities have a relatively short operating history and are subject to the risks of a new enterprise, any one of which could limit growth, content and services, or market development. Our short operating history makes it difficult to predict how our businesses will develop. Accordingly, we face all of the risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies, such as: 10 Table of Contents • uncertain growth in the market for, and uncertain market acceptance of, products, services and technologies; • the evolving nature of e-learning services and content; and • competition, technological change or evolving customer preferences that could harm sales of their services, content or solutions. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities are not able to meet the challenges of building businesses and managing growth, the likely result will be slowed growth, lower margins, additional operational costs and lower income. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities do not manage growth successfully, our growth and chances for continued profitability may slow or stop. We and the Satellite Operating Entities have expanded operations rapidly during the last several years, and we plan to continue to expand with additional solutions tailored to meet the different needs of end customers in specific market segments. This expansion has created significant demands on administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources, particularly the need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets and new lines of business could strain these resources and increase the need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. We or the Satellite Operating Entities’ personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support further expansion. Future financings may dilute stockholders or impair our financial condition. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing, which might include the sale of equity securities. The issuance of equity securities could result in financial and voting dilution to our existing stockholders. The issuance of debt could result in effective subordination of stockholders’ interests to the debt, create the possibility of default, and limit our financial and business alternatives. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities fail to keep pace with rapid technological changes, especially in the satellite and distance learning education industries, our competitive position will suffer. Our market and the enabling technologies (including satellite and distance learning technology) used in our education/training and enterprise data networking solutions are characterized by rapid technological change. As our services are primarily based on satellite broadband infrastructure, we rely on the Satellite Operating Entities. As such, we also rely on the Satellite Operating Entities to keep pace with technological changes. Prior to our acquisition of CCH, CCH’s stockholders provided CCH the funding it required to expand and to provide the Satellite Operating Entities with the financial support to acquire required technology. We will, however, need further external funding to upgrade existing technology, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds to keep pace with rapid technological changes in our markets. Failure to respond to technological advances could make our business less efficient, or cause our services to be of a lesser quality than our competitors. These advances could also allow competitors to provide higher quality services at lower costs than we can provide. Thus, if we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our services will become uncompetitive. 11 Table of Contents Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures, natural disasters, or unauthorized tamperings with systems could disrupt our operations. The continual accessibility of our web sites and the performance and reliability of CCLX’s satellite network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain users, customers and merchants. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases response time, could reduce our appeal to users and customers. Factors that could significantly disrupt our operations include: • system failures and outages caused by fire, floods, earthquakes or power loss; • telecommunications failures and similar events; • software errors; • computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems; and • security breaches related to the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers or other personal information. We and CCLX have limited backup systems and redundancy. Future disruptions or any of the foregoing events could damage our reputation, require us to expend significant capital and other resources and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Furthermore, as we rely on CCLX to provide the satellite network infrastructure, if CCLX suffers such disruptions or failure, we may have to provide CCLX with substantial financial support. Neither we nor CCLX carries any business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected if any of the above disruptions should occur. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities lose key management personnel, our business may suffer. Our continued success is largely dependent on the continued services of our key management personnel, as well as those of the Satellite Operating Entities, and on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train and retain qualified employees for technical, marketing and managerial positions. The loss of the services of certain of our or the Satellite Operating Entities’ key personnel, including Messrs. Yin, Chan and Sena, without adequate replacement, could have an adverse effect on us. Each of these individuals played significant roles in developing and executing our overall business plan and maintaining customer relationships and proprietary technology systems. While none is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any would be disruptive to our business. Competition for qualified personnel in Chinese telecommunications and Internet-related markets is intense. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining them. We may not compete successfully with large, well-funded state-owned and private enterprises in its industry, which could result in reduced revenue. Competition in providing education/training and enterprise data networking service is becoming more intense in the PRC. Large, well-funded state-owned enterprises, such as China Telecom, China Netcom, China Unicom, China Railcom, China Sat, China Orient, Guangdong Satellite Telecom and China Educational TV, as well as private enterprises like chinaedu.net, Beida Online, Ambow, and Tengtu, may offer services that are comparable or superior to ours. As there are no independent market surveys of our business segments, we are unable to ascertain our market share accurately. Failure to compete successfully with these state-owned enterprises will adversely affect our business and operating results. 12 Table of Contents Our stockholders may have securities law claims against us for rescission or damages that are not extinguished by consummation of the acquisition of CCH. On March 21, 2006, after obtaining the approval of our stockholders, we amended our certificate of incorporation, the effect of which was, among other things, to eliminate the provision of our certificate of incorporation that purported to prohibit amendment of the “business combination” provisions contained therein and to extend the date before which we must complete a business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, from March 23, 2006 to December 31, 2006. Because extending the period during which we could consummate a business combination was not contemplated by our initial public offering prospectus, our stockholders may have securities law claims against us for rescission (under which a successful claimant would have the right to receive the total amount paid for his or her shares, plus interest and less any income earned on the shares, in exchange for surrender of the shares) or damages (compensation for loss on an investment caused by alleged material misrepresentations or omissions in the sale of the security). Such claims might entitle stockholders asserting them to up to $6.00 per share of common stock, based on the initial offering price of the public units comprised of stock and warrants, less any amount received from sale of the original warrants purchased with them and plus interest from the date of our initial public offering. A successful claimant for damages under federal or state law could be awarded an amount to compensate for the decrease in value of his or her shares caused by the alleged violation (including, possibly, punitive damages), together with interest, while retaining the shares. We may be subject to securities laws claims regarding past disclosures. We may be subject to claims for rescission or other securities law claims resulting from our failure to disclose that our charter provision purporting to prohibit certain amendments was possibly inconsistent with Delaware’s General Corporation Law. We may also be subject to such claims as a result of inaccuracies in other disclosures, as follows: It may be argued that our initial public offering prospectus misstated the vote required by its charter to approve a business combination by providing that “we will proceed with a business combination only if the public stockholders who own at least a majority of the shares of common stock sold in that offering vote in favor of it...,” and that our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, have been inaccurate in describing CCH as a leading provider of e-learning content (as opposed to being primarily a content carrier). On November 13, 2006, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission disclosing this inaccuracy this last item. We are unable to predict the likelihood that claims might be made with regard to the foregoing or estimate any amounts for which it might be liable if any such claim was made. We may be subject to fines and other potential penalties as a result of filings made in connection with acquisitions of PRC companies. Under applicable PRC law and regulations, a corporate legal entity must apply to the PRC government for a change in registration when a shareholder transfers its equity interest in the company. We have made such filings in connection with our acquisition of our 80% ownership interest in the holding company of FTBC and would be required to make such filings in connection with other acquisitions we may make in the future. If such filings are not made in compliance with regulatory requirements or contain erroneous information, we may be subject to administrative fines and/or the suspension of the business licenses of the acquired business in the event that we fail to remedy the situation within such time limit as may be permitted by law. Although we believe the filing we made in connection with our acquisition of the holding company of FTBC complied with applicable law, we intend to amend such filing to more fully disclose the terms of the acquisition, consistent with our disclosures in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. No assurance can be given that we will not be subject to a fine or that such holding company would not be subject to a possible suspension as a result of such amendment. 13 Table of Contents Foreign Exchange Risk Changes in the conversion rate between the RMB and foreign currencies, such as Hong Kong or United States dollars, may adversely affect our profits. We bill our customers in Chinese RMB, but 10.8%, 13.6% and 3.0% of our revenues in fiscal years 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, were collected in Hong Kong dollars. In addition, 13.8%, 24.3% and 14.9% of our purchases/expenses in those fiscal periods, respectively, were in United States dollars; 3.7%, 1.3% and 0% were in Singapore dollars; and 7.7%, 8.5% and 3.1% were in Hong Kong dollars during these same periods. The remainder of our revenues and expenses/purchases were in Chinese RMB. As such, we may be subject to fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates between these currencies. The RMB is not a freely convertible currency. The State Administration for Foreign Exchange, under the authority of the People’s Bank of China, controls the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. The value of the RMB is subject to changes in central government policies and to international economic and political developments affecting supply and demand in the China Foreign Exchange Trading System market. Neither we nor our subsidiaries have a formal hedging policy with respect to foreign exchange exposure. In the future, we may hedge exchange transactions after considering the foreign currency amount, exposure period and transaction costs. Chinese foreign exchange controls may limit our ability to utilize CEC’s revenues effectively and receive dividends and other payments from our Chinese subsidiaries. Our 98.5% owned subsidiary, ChinaCast Technology (Shanghai) Limited (“CCT Shanghai”), is subject to Chinese rules and regulations on currency conversion. The Chinese government regulates the conversion of the Chinese RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises, of which CCT Shanghai is one, are required to apply for authority (renewed annually) to open foreign currency accounts governing conversion for payment of dividends limited capital items such as direct investments, loans, and issuances of securities, some of which may be effected with governmental approval, while others require authorization. The ability of CCT Shanghai to remit funds to us may be limited by these restrictions. There can be no assurance that the relevant regulations in China will not be amended so as to adversely affect CCT Shanghai’s ability to remit funds to us. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the Chinese government may adversely affect our business. Our business and operations in China and those of our operating subsidiary and the Satellite Operating Entities are governed by the Chinese legal system, which is codified in written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives and internal guidelines. The Chinese government is in the process of developing its commercial legal system to meet the needs of foreign investors and to encourage foreign investment. As the Chinese economy is developing and growing generally at a faster pace than its legal system, uncertainty exists regarding the application of existing laws and regulations to novel events or circumstances. Relevant Chinese laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their requirements, interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties and potential inconsistencies. In addition, Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and regulatory requirements. Uncertainties and inconsistencies in the requirements, interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements could materially and adversely affect our business and operations and could expose us to potential liabilities, including potential fines and other penalties, if it is determined that we have failed to comply with the requirements of such laws, regulations and legal requirements. 14 Table of Contents Moreover, precedents of interpretation, implementation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations are limited, and Chinese court decisions are not binding on lower courts. Accordingly, the outcome of dispute resolutions may not be as consistent or predictable as in other more mercantilely advanced jurisdictions. It may be difficult to obtain timely and equitable enforcement of Chinese laws, or to obtain enforcement in China of a judgment by a foreign court or jurisdiction. Chinese law will govern our material operating agreements, some of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. There is no assurance that we will be able to enforce those material agreements or that remedies will be available outside China. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a substantial degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our business will be adversely affected, if Chinese regulatory authorities view CEC’s and the Satellite Operating Entities’ corporate activities not complying with applicable Chinese laws and regulations, including restrictions on foreign investments, change applicable laws and regulations, or impose additional requirements and conditions with which they are unable to comply. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in businesses engaged in telecommunications and education services, Internet access, education content and distribution of news and information, but permits foreign investment in businesses providing technical services in these areas. CCL and CCLX are licensed to provide value-added satellite broadband services, Internet services and Internet content in China. We have not sought confirmation from Chinese regulatory governmental authorities whether our structure and business arrangement with the Satellite Operating Entities comply with applicable Chinese laws and regulations, including regulation of value-added telecommunication business in China. Chinese legal advisers have opined that our performance under the technical services agreement with CCLX complies with applicable Chinese laws and regulations, and we comply with PRC laws and regulations to the extent that its services are technical services. However, they do not rule out the possibility that the PRC regulatory authorities will view us as not being in compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to restrictions on foreign investments in the value-added telecommunication business. If: • Chinese authorities deem CEC’s corporate activities as violating applicable Chinese laws and regulations (including restrictions on foreign investments); • Chinese regulatory authorities change applicable laws and regulations or impose additional requirements and conditions with which we are unable to comply; or • We are found to violate any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations; the relevant Chinese authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such a violation by levying fines, revoking business license(s), requiring us to restructure our ownership or operations, and requiring us and/or CCLX to discontinue some or all of their businesses. Any of these actions will adversely affect our business. We may be unable to enforce our agreements with the Satellite Operating Entities. Chinese law currently prohibits foreign investors from owning greater than 50% equity interests in companies engaged in telecommunication value-added businesses in the PRC. Although we have been advised by counsel that the pledge agreements between us and the Satellite Operating Entities are valid under PRC law, unless the equity interest restriction is amended or repealed, and subject to the approval of the relevant government authorities, we will only be entitled to enforce its right to take possession and ownership of up to a 50% interest in the Satellite Operating Entities in accordance with applicable PRC laws and regulations. 15 Table of Contents We are exposed to certain tax risks with respect to tax benefits enjoyed by certain of our subsidiaries in China under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law. Our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China are subject to tax in China. Historically, as foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, most of those subsidiaries enjoyed various tax holidays and other preferential tax treatments, which reduced their effective income tax rates to 15% or lower. The EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008, has applied a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to all “resident enterprises” in China, including FIEs. Moreover, the EIT Law applies to enterprises established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” located in China. Under the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. While we do not believe we are a “resident enterprise,” because ambiguities exist with the interpretation and application of the EIT Law and the implementation regulations, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and therefore may be subject to the China enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on certain of our income. Our success depends on stable political, economic and social environments, which are subject to disruption in the PRC. Economic conditions in China are subject to uncertainties that may arise from changes in government policies and social conditions. Since 1978, the Chinese government has promulgated various reforms of its economic systems, resulting in economic growth over the last three decades. However, many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and expected to be refined and modified from time to time. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to changes, which may have a material impact on our operations and our financial performance. For instance, less governmental emphasis on education and distance learning services or on retraining out-of-work persons in the Chinese work force would harm our business, prospects, results and financial condition. Because our executive officers and directors reside outside of the U.S., it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce U.S. court judgments against them in the PRC. Our executive officers and directors reside outside of the U.S. and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the U.S. It may therefore be difficult for you to enforce your legal rights, to effect service of process upon our officers and directors or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and executive officer under U.S. federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the U.S. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the U.S. and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the U.S. federal securities laws. Weakened political relations between the U.S. and China could make us less attractive. The relationship between the United States and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations, and its future business plans and profitability. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to the market-oriented economies of OECD member countries. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it functions and produces according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. In certain aspects, the PRC’s economy has been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. However, there can be no assurance of the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have. The PRC economy also differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an international group of member countries sharing a commitment to democratic government and market economy. For instance: • the number and importance of state-owned enterprises in the PRC is greater than in most OECD countries; • the level of capital reinvestment is lower in the PRC than in most OECD countries; and • Chinese policies make it more difficult for foreign firms to obtain local currency in China than in OECD jurisdictions. As a result of these differences, our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to those of OECD member countries. The Chinese economic slow-down may negatively impact our operating results. The Chinese economy has recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. A number of factors have contributed to this slow-down, including appreciation of the Renminbi, the currency of China, or RMB, which has adversely affected China’s exports. In addition, the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much adverse impact it will have on the global economy in general or the Chinese economy in particular. Slowing economic growth in China could result in slowing growth for China’s education market and might have adverse effects on the demand for our services and therefore reduce our revenues. The economy of China had been experiencing unprecedented growth before 2008, which could be curtailed if the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or its return to planned-economy policies, any of which would have an adverse effect on the combined company. The rapid growth of the Chinese economy before 2008 had led to higher levels of inflation. Government attempts to control inflation may adversely affect the business climate and growth of private enterprise, and the demand for 16 Table of Contents higher education and e-learning, in China. In addition, our profitability may be adversely affected if prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in its costs and expenses. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to foreign currencies could affect our operating results. We prepare our financial statements in Renminbi. The translation of RMB amounts into U.S. dollars is included for the convenience of readers, but payroll and other costs of non-U.S. operations will be payable in foreign currencies, primarily Renminbi. To the extent future revenue is denominated in non-U.S. currencies, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have a material adverse affect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. As our operations will be primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against this currency, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. We are required to deduct Chinese corporate withholding taxes from dividend we may pay to our stockholders. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress (NPC), approved and promulgated the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “New EIT Law”)and on November 28, 2007, the State Council promulgated the implementing rules of the New EIT Law. This New EIT Law and its implementing rules have taken effect on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules, FIEs and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. The New EIT Law provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate under the then-effective tax laws or regulations. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued a Notice on Implementing Transitional Measures for Enterprise Income Tax (the “Notice”), providing that the enterprises that have been approved to enjoy a low tax rate prior to the promulgation of the New EIT Law will be eligible for a five-year transition period since January 1, 2008, during which time the tax rate will be increased step by step to the 25% unified tax rate set out in the New EIT Law. From January 1, 2008, for the enterprises whose applicable tax rate was 15% before the promulgation of the New EIT Law , the tax rate will be increased to 18% for year 2008, 20% for year 2009, 22% for year 2010, 24% for year 2011, 25% for year 2012. For the enterprises whose applicable tax rate was 24%, the tax rate will be changed to 25% from January 1, 2008. Furthermore, in accordance with the New WIT Law and its implementing rules, the income derived from the PRC of a foreign enterprise that has no establishment in the PRC is subject to a 10% withholding tax absent a tax treaty between the PRC and the jurisdiction where the foreign enterprise is incorporated. As a result, following a business combination any of our subsidiaries operating in China will be required to deduct Chinese withholding taxes from dividends distributed to us as the parent entity, meaning we would have less funds to use in connection with our operations as the parent entity or for distribution to our stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 