Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following information about risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC, before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the date of this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our capital stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have operated at a loss and will likely continue to operate at a loss for the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant losses over the past five years, including net losses of $3.0 million, $5.8 million and $6.9 million for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $155.9 million as of September 30, 2007. Our operating losses have been due primarily to our expenditures for research and development on our product candidates and for general and administrative expenses and our lack of significant revenues. We are likely to continue to incur operating losses until such time, if ever, that we generate significant recurring revenues. We anticipate it will take a minimum of five years (and possibly longer) for us to generate recurring revenues, since we expect that it will take at least that long before the development of any of our licensed or other current potential products is completed, marketing approvals are obtained from the FDA and commercial sales of any of these products can begin. We need substantial additional funding to continue our operations and may be unable to raise capital when needed, or at all, which would force us to delay, curtail or eliminate our clinical programs and our product development programs. We need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations and clinical trials and continue our research and development. In addition, we may need to raise substantial additional capital to enforce our proprietary rights, defend, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third party patents or other intellectual property rights; and commercialize any of our products that may be approved by the FDA or any international regulatory authority. As of September 30, 2007, we had cash of approximately $1,727,000. We expect to use these funds, including any additional funds received pursuant to the exercise of outstanding warrants to purchase our capital stock, to continue the development of our product candidates, to expand the development of our drug pipeline and for working capital. We believe we have adequate financial resources to fund our current operations through the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. However, in order to fund on-going cash requirements beyond that point, or to further accelerate or expand our programs, we will need to raise additional funds. We are considering strategic and financial options available to us, including public or private equity offerings, debt financings and collaboration arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing securities, our stockholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. Debt financings, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and require significant interest payments. If we do not receive additional financing to fund our operations beyond the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we would have to discontinue some or all of our activities, merge with or sell some or all of our assets to another company, or cease operations entirely, and our stockholders might lose all or part of their investments. In addition, if our catalytic antioxidant program shows scientific progress, we will need significant additional funds to move therapies through the preclinical stages of development and clinical trials. If we are unable to raise the amount of capital necessary to complete development and reach commercialization of any of our catalytic antioxidant products, we will need to delay or cease development of one or more of these products or partner with another company for the development and commercialization of these products. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In its audit opinion issued in connection with our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2007 and 2006 and our consolidated statements of operations, stockholder’s equity and cash flows for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern given our recurring net losses, negative cash flows from operations and working capital deficiency. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue in existence. We have a limited operating history, have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur substantial losses and may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history and no products approved for commercialization in the United States or abroad. Our product candidates are still being developed, and all but our AEOL 10150 candidate are still in early stages of development. Our product candidates will require significant additional development, clinical trials, regulatory clearances or approvals by the FDA and additional investment before they can be commercialized in the United States. As of September 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $155.9 million from our research, development and other activities. We have not generated material revenues from product sales and do not expect to generate product revenues sufficient to support us for at least several more years. Our research and development (“R&D”) activities are at an early stage and therefore might never result in viable products. Our catalytic antioxidant program is in the early stages of development, involves unproven technology, requires significant further R&D and regulatory approvals and is subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products or therapeutic procedures based on innovative technologies. These risks include the possibilities that: · any or all of these proposed products or procedures are found to be unsafe or ineffective or otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; · the proposed products or procedures are not economical to market or do not achieve broad market acceptance; · third parties hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing the proposed products or procedures; and · third parties market a superior or equivalent product. Further, the timeframe for commercialization of any product is long and uncertain because of the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing approval can be obtained. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop or market any of our proposed products or procedures. If our products are not successfully developed and eventually approved by the FDA, we may be forced to reduce or terminate our operations. All of our products are at various stages of development and must be approved by the FDA or similar foreign governmental agencies before they can be marketed. The process for obtaining FDA approval is both time-consuming and costly, with no certainty of a successful outcome. This process typically requires extensive preclinical and clinical testing, which may take longer or cost more than we anticipate, and may prove unsuccessful due to numerous factors. Product candidates that may appear to be promising at early stages of development may not successfully reach the market for a number of reasons. The results of preclinical and initial clinical testing of these products may not necessarily indicate the results that will be obtained from later or more extensive testing. Companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier trials. Numerous factors could affect the timing, cost or outcome of our drug development efforts, including the following: · Difficulty in securing centers to conduct trials; · Difficulty in enrolling patients in conformity with required protocols or projected timelines; · Unexpected adverse reactions by patients in trials; · Difficulty in obtaining clinical supplies of the product; · Changes in the FDA’s requirements for our testing during the course of that testing; · Inability to generate statistically significant data confirming the efficacy of the product being tested; · Modification of the drug during testing; and · Reallocation of our limited financial and other resources to other clinical programs. It is possible that none of the products we develop will obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to begin commercializing them. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals is unpredictable but often can take years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon the nature of the drug candidate. Any analysis we perform of data from clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from the particular drug candidate and we may not have the financial resources to continue to develop our products and, as a result, may have to terminate our operations. If we do not reach the market with our products before our competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if we are not effective in marketing our products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. We face intense competition in our development activities. Many of our competitors are fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies, which have substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and human resources than we do. These companies might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive products more rapidly than we can for our products. In addition, competitors might develop technologies and products that are less expensive and perceived to be safer or more effective than those being developed by us, which could impair our product development and render our technology obsolete. We are and expect to remain dependent on collaborations with third parties for the development of new products, and adverse events involving these collaborations could prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates and achieving profitability. We currently license from third parties, and do not own, rights under patents and certain related intellectual property for the development of our product candidates. In addition, we expect to enter into agreements with third parties both to license rights to our product candidates and to develop and commercialize new products. We might not be able to enter into or maintain these agreements on terms favorable to us, if at all. Further if any of our current licenses were to expire or terminate, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our research and development activities rely on technology licensed from third parties, and termination of any of those licenses would result in loss of significant rights to develop and market our products, which would impair our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We have exclusive worldwide rights to our antioxidant small molecule technology through license agreements with Duke University and the National Jewish Medical and Research Center. Each license generally may be terminated by the licensor if we fail to perform our obligations under the agreement, including obligations to develop the compounds and technologies under license. If terminated, we would lose the right to develop the products, which could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The license agreements also generally require us to meet specified milestones or show reasonable diligence in development of the technology. If disputes arise over the definition of these requirements or whether we have satisfied the requirements in a timely manner, or if any other obligations in the license agreements are disputed by the other party, the other party could terminate the agreement, and we could lose our rights to develop the licensed technology. If new technology is developed from these licenses, we may be required to negotiate certain key financial and other terms, such as royalty payments, for the licensing of this future technology with these research institutions, and it might not be possible to obtain any such license on terms that are satisfactory to us, or at all. We now rely, and will continue to rely, heavily on third parties for product and clinical development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products. We currently depend heavily and will depend heavily in the future on third parties for support in product development, clinical development, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of our products. The termination of some or all of our existing collaborative arrangements, or our inability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue or complete clinical development of our products. We rely on contract clinical research organizations (“CROs”) for various aspects of our clinical development activities including clinical trial monitoring, data collection and data management. As a result, we have had and continue to have less control over the conduct of clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials, the required reporting of adverse events and the management of data developed through the trial than would be the case if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Although we rely on CROs to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with good clinical practices (“GCPs”) for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. The third parties on which we rely may have staffing difficulties, may undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed, adversely affecting their willingness or ability to conduct our trials. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control. Any failure of such CROs to successfully accomplish clinical trial monitoring, data collection and data management and the other services they provide for us in a timely manner and in compliance with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete clinical development of our products and obtain regulatory approval. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a CRO may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternate service provider. However, making such changes may be costly and would likely delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. Additionally, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. We will need to enter into collaborative arrangements for the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates, or we will have to develop the expertise, obtain the additional capital and invest the resources to perform those functions internally. We do not have the staff or facilities to manufacture or market any of the product candidates being developed in our catalytic antioxidant program. As a result, we will need to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop, commercialize, manufacture and market products that we expect to emerge from our catalytic antioxidant program, or develop the expertise within the company. We might not be successful in entering into such third party arrangements on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing or marketing on acceptable terms, we may be delayed in our ability to commercialize products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Substantial additional funds and personnel would be required if we needed to establish our own manufacturing or marketing operations. We may not be able to obtain adequate funding or establish these capabilities in a cost-effective or timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A failure to obtain or maintain patent and other intellectual property rights would allow others to develop and sell products similar to ours, which could impair our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to establish and maintain adequate protection for our intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed from third parties. We rely primarily on patents in the United States and in other key markets to protect our intellectual property. If we do not have adequate patent protection, other companies could develop and sell products that compete directly with ours, without incurring any liability to us. Patent prosecution, maintenance and enforcement on a global basis is time-consuming and expensive, and many of these costs must be incurred before we know whether a product covered by the claims can be successfully developed or marketed. Even if we expend considerable time and money on patent prosecution, a patent application may never issue as a patent. We can never be certain that we were the first to invent the particular technology or that we were the first to file a patent application for the technology because patent applications in the United States and elsewhere are not typically published for public inspection for at least 18 months from the date when they are filed. It is always possible that a competitor is pursuing a patent for the same invention in the United States as we are and has an earlier invention date. Outside the United States in some jurisdictions, priority of invention is determined by the earliest effective filing date, not the date of invention. Consequently, if a third party pursues the same invention and has an earlier filing date, patent protection outside the United States would be unavailable to us. Also, outside the United States, an earlier date of invention cannot overcome a date of publication that precedes the earliest effective filing date. Accordingly, the patenting of our proposed products would be precluded outside the United States if a prior publication anticipates the claims of a pending application, even if the date of publication is within a year of the filing of the pending application. Even if patents issue, the patent claims allowed might not be sufficiently broad to offer adequate protection for our technology against competitive products. Patent protection differs from country to country, giving rise to increased competition from other products in countries where patent coverage is either unavailable, weak or not adequately enforced, if enforced at all. Once a patent issues, we still face the risk that others will try to design around our patent or will try to challenge the validity of the patent. The cost of defending against a challenge to one or more of our patents could be substantial and even if we prevailed, there could be no assurance that we would recover damages. If a third party were to bring an infringement claim against us, we would incur significant costs in our defense; if the claim were successful, we would need to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license from the successful patent holder, if available. Our business also depends on our ability to develop and market products without infringing on the proprietary rights of others or being in breach of our license agreements. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by a large number of patents, patent filings and frequent and protracted litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Many companies have numerous patents that protect their intellectual property rights. Third parties might assert infringement claims against us with respect to our product candidates and future products. If litigation were required to determine the validity of a third party’s claims, we could be required to spend significant time and financial resources, which could distract our management and prevent us from furthering our core business activities, regardless of the outcome. If we did not prevail in the litigation, we could be required to pay damages, license a third party’s technology, which may not be possible on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or discontinue our own activities and develop non-infringing technology, any of which could prevent or significantly delay pursuit of our development activities. Protection of trade secret and confidential information is difficult, and loss of confidentiality could eliminate our competitive advantage. In addition to patent protection, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and confidential information to protect our technology. We use confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators to maintain the proprietary nature of this technology. However, confidentiality agreements can be breached by the other party, which would make our trade secrets and proprietary know-how legally available for use by others. There is generally no adequate remedy for breach of confidentiality obligations. In addition, the competitive advantage afforded by trade secrets is limited because a third party can independently discover or develop something identical to our own trade secrets or know-how, without incurring any liability to us. If our current or former employees, consultants or collaborators were to use information improperly obtained from others (even if unintentional), we may be subject to claims as to ownership and rights in any resulting know-how or inventions. If we cannot retain or hire qualified personnel or maintain our collaborations, our programs could be delayed and may be discontinued. As of November 30, 2007, we had one full-time employee, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We utilize consultants to assist with our operations and are highly dependent on the services of our executive officers. We also are dependent on our collaborators for our research and development activities. The loss of key executive officers or collaborators could delay progress in our research and development activities or result in their termination entirely. We believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientific and managerial personnel. We face intense competition for these kinds of personnel from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. If we fail to identify, attract and retain personnel, we may be unable to continue the development of our product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We face the risk of product liability claims which could exceed our insurance coverage and deplete our cash resources. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries expose us to the risk of product liability claims alleging that use of our product candidates caused an injury or harm. These claims can arise at any point in the development, testing, manufacture, marketing or sale of pharmaceutical products and may be made directly by patients involved in clinical trials of our products, by consumers or healthcare providers or by organizations selling our products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend, even if the product did not actually cause the alleged injury or harm. Insurance covering product liability claims becomes increasingly expensive as a product candidate moves through the development pipeline to commercialization. We have limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and this coverage may not be sufficient to cover us against some or all potential losses due to liability, if any, or to the expenses associated with defending against liability claims. A product liability claim successfully asserted against us could exceed our insurance coverage, require us to use our own cash resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our licensing and other agreements with third parties require or might require us to maintain product liability insurance. If we cannot maintain acceptable amounts of coverage on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with the terms set forth in these agreements, the corresponding agreements would be subject to termination. The costs of compliance with environmental, safety and similar laws could increase our cost of doing business or subject us to liability in the event of noncompliance. Our business is subject to regulation under state and federal laws regarding occupational safety, laboratory practices, environmental protection and the use, generation, manufacture, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We may be required to incur significant costs in the future to comply with existing or future environmental and health and safety regulations. Our research activities involve the use of hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our procedures for handling such materials comply with applicable state and federal regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination, we could be liable for any resulting damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to intense competition that could materially impact our operating results. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. The pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is characterized by intense competition and rapid and significant technological advancements. Many companies, research institutions and universities are working in a number of areas similar to our primary fields of interest to develop new products. There also is intense competition among companies seeking to acquire products that already are being marketed. Many of the companies with which we compete have or are likely to have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and financial, technical, scientific, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources than at least some of our present or future strategic partners or licensees. As a result, these competitors may: · Succeed in developing competitive products sooner than us or our strategic partners or licensees; · Obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals for their products before approval of any of our products; · Obtain patents that block or otherwise inhibit the development and commercialization of our product candidates; · Develop products that are safer or more effective than our products; · Devote greater resources to marketing or selling their products; · Introduce or adapt more quickly to new technologies or scientific advances; · Introduce products that render our products obsolete; · Withstand price competition more successfully than us or our strategic partners or licensees; · Negotiate third-party strategic alliances or licensing arrangements more effectively; or · Take advantage of other opportunities more readily. Currently, there are three drugs approved as radiation protection agents. Amifostine (Ethyol®) is marketed by MedImmune, Inc. for use in reduction of chemotherapy-induced kidney toxicity and radiation-induced xerostomia (damage to the salivary gland). KepivanceTM (palifermin) is marketed by Amgen, Inc. for use in the treatment of severe oral mucositis (mouth sores) in patients with hematologic (blood) cancers. Salagen Tablets (pilocarpine hydrochloride) is marketed by MGI Pharma in the United States as a treatment for the symptoms of xerostomia induced by radiation therapy in head and neck cancer patients. However, there are also many companies working to develop pharmaceuticals that act as a radiation protection agent including MGI Pharma, Curagen Corporation, Endo Pharmaceuticals and Proteome Systems, Ltd. Currently, Rilutek®, which was developed by Aventis Pharma AG, is the only drug of which we are aware that has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of ALS. Other companies are working to develop pharmaceuticals to treat ALS, including the Avicena Group, CytRx Corporation, Ceregene Inc., Celgene, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, Ono Pharmaceuticals and Teva Pharmaceuticals. In addition, ALS belongs to a family of diseases called neurodegenerative diseases, which includes Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and Huntington’s disease. Due to similarities between these diseases, a new treatment for one disease potentially could be useful for treating others. There are many companies that are producing and developing drugs used to treat neurodegenerative diseases other than ALS, including Amgen, Inc., Cephalon, Inc., Ceregene, Inc., Elan Pharmaceuticals, plc, Forest Laboratories, Inc., H. Lundbeck A/S, Phytopharm plc, and Schwarz Pharma AG. Acceptance of our products in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will harm our business. Even if approved for marketing, our products may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the receipt of regulatory approvals for the indications that we are studying; · the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety, clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products; · marketing and distribution support; · the introduction, market penetration and pricing strategies of competing and future products; and · coverage and reimbursement policies of governmental and other third-party payors such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, purchase, utilize or recommend any of our products. We may need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules, including those pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with Section 404, which requires companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting, and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. Based on current SEC rules, we are required to be in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning in our fiscal year ending September 30, 2008. We will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete a favorable assessment as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for our fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, or that any future assessments of the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting will be favorable. If we are unable to obtain future unqualified reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, coverage and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices, we cannot provide any assurance that governmental authorities will find that our business practices comply with current or future administrative or judicial interpretations of potentially applicable laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these laws and regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock Our principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock and are, and will continue to be, able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. As of November 30, 2007, Xmark Opportunity Partners, LLC (“Xmark”) possessed voting power over 14,578,154 shares, or 45.6%, of our outstanding common stock, through its management of Goodnow Capital, L.L.C. (“Goodnow”), Xmark Opportunity Fund, L.P., Xmark Opportunity Fund, Ltd. and Xmark JV Investment Partners, LLC (collectively, the “Xmark Funds”), and through a voting trust agreement by and among Biomedical Value Fund, L.P., Biomedical Value Fund, Ltd., Xmark Asset Management, LLC and the Company (the “Xmark Voting Trust”) with respect to 1,000,000 shares. As a result, Xmark is able to determine a significant part of the composition of our board of directors, holds significant voting power with respect to matters requiring stockholder approval and is able to exercise significant influence over our operations. The interests of Xmark may be different than the interests of other stockholders on these and other matters. This concentration of ownership also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could reduce the price of our common stock. Also as of November 30, 2007, Efficacy Capital Ltd. (“Efficacy Capital”) owned 9,800,000 shares, or 30.7%, of our outstanding common stock, through its management of Efficacy Biotech Master Fund Ltd. As a result, Efficacy Capital is able to determine a significant part of the composition of our board of directors, holds significant voting power with respect to matters requiring stockholder approval and is able to exercise significant influence over our operations. The interests of Efficacy Capital may be different than the interests of other stockholders on these and other matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could reduce the price of our common stock. We may need to sell additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock or other securities to meet our capital requirements. If we need to sell additional shares of our common stock, preferred stock or other securities to meet our capital requirements, or upon conversion of our preferred stock and exercises of currently outstanding options and warrants, the ownership interests of our current stockholders could be substantially diluted. The possibility of dilution posed by shares available for future sale could reduce the market price of our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through equity offerings in the future. As of November 30, 2007, we had 31,952,749 shares of common stock outstanding. We may grant to our employees, directors and consultants options to purchase shares of our common stock under our 2004 Stock Option Plan. In addition, as of November 30, 2007, options to purchase 3,908,617 shares were outstanding at exercise prices ranging from $0.38 to $51.25 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of $2.70 per share, and 2,901,559 shares were reserved for issuance under the 2004 Stock Option Plan. In addition, as of November 30, 2007, warrants to purchase 14,025,427 shares of common stock were outstanding at exercise prices ranging from $0.50 to $19.90 per share, with a weighted exercise price of $1.15 per share. We have also reserved 475,087 shares of common stock for the conversion of our outstanding Series B Preferred stock. In connection with prior collaborations and financing transactions, we also have issued Series B preferred stock and a promissory note convertible into Series B preferred stock to affiliates of Elan Corporation, plc (“Elan”). These securities generally are exercisable and convertible at the option of the Elan affiliates. The exercise or conversion of all or a portion of these securities would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Our common stock is not listed on a national exchange, is illiquid and is characterized by low and/or erratic trading volume, and the per share price of our common stock has fluctuated from $0.34 to $1.50 during the last two years. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “AOLS.” An active public market for our common stock is unlikely to develop as long as we are not listed on a national securities exchange. Even if listed, the market for our stock may be impaired because of the limited number of investors, the significant ownership stake of Efficacy Capital and Xmark (through its management of Goodnow and the Xmark Funds), and our small market capitalization, which is less than that authorized for investment by many institutional investors. Historically, the public market for our common stock has been characterized by low and/or erratic trading volume, often resulting in price volatility. The market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations due to factors that we cannot control, including the results of preclinical and clinical testing of our products under development, decisions by collaborators regarding product development, regulatory developments, market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, future announcements concerning our competitors, adverse developments concerning proprietary rights, public concern as to the safety or commercial value of any products and general economic conditions. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuation unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations can adversely affect the market price and volatility of our common stock. If registration rights that we have previously granted are exercised, or if we grant additional registration rights in the future, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Upon receiving notice from Elan, we are obligated to register with the SEC shares of common stock underlying the Series B preferred stock, warrants to purchase Series B preferred stock and a promissory note held by the Elan affiliates. If these securities are registered with the SEC, they may be sold in the open market. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. The sale of a significant amount of shares in the open market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or become highly volatile. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect its price. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our executive management and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that any cash dividends will be paid on the common stock for the foreseeable future. The payment of any cash dividend by us will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, capital, regulatory requirements and financial condition. Furthermore, the terms of some of our financing arrangements directly limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 