ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This 2009 Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which include information relating to future events, future financial performance, strategies, expectations, competitive environment, regulation and availability of resources. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as verbal forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: proposed new programs; scheduled openings of new campuses and campus expansions; expectations that regulatory developments or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity; statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results and future economic performance; and statements of management’s goals and objectives and other similar expressions. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Many events beyond our control may determine whether results we anticipate will be achieved. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure of our schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations and loss of external financial aid funding. In 2009, we derived approximately 73% of our net revenues, on a cash basis, from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this report as Title IV Programs, administered by ED. To participate in Title IV Programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified as an eligible institution by ED. As a result, our undergraduate schools are subject to extensive regulation by the state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our undergraduate educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new, or expand our existing undergraduate educational programs and change our corporate structure and ownership. The agencies that regulate the schools also periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an “institution” defined by ED as a main campus and its additional locations, if any. Under ED’s definition, we have three such institutions. The state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. 21 Table of Contents If our schools failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our schools’ operations, terminate our schools’ ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, revoke our schools’ accreditation or terminate their eligibility to receive Title IV Program funds, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. We believe that we have described the most significant regulatory risks that apply to our schools in the following paragraphs. A substantial decrease in student financing options, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a material adverse affect on our student population and consequently, on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The consumer credit markets in the United States have suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages and other loans. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans and alternative student loans have also experienced increases in default rates. Adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans have resulted in providers of alternative loans and FFEL lenders exiting the student loan market and other providers reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of alternative loans to postsecondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative loans. Prospective students may find that increased financing costs make borrowing to fund their education costs unattractive and motivate them to abandon or delay enrollment in postsecondary education programs such as our programs. Tight credit markets may also move private lenders to impose on us and our students new or increased fees in order to provide alternative loans to prospective and continuing students. If any of these scenarios were to occur, in whole or in part, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and could result in a decrease in our student population, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congress is considering legislation to eliminate the FFEL loan program and move all federal student lending into the Federal Direct Loan (FDL) program. A transition to the FDL program could cause disruptions to the administration of Title IV Program loans to our students if we or ED encounter difficulties with the systems or processes necessary for increased FDL loans. Additionally, any actions by the U.S. Congress that significantly reduce funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our students to participate in these programs, or establish different or more stringent requirements for our schools to participate in Title IV Programs, could have a material adverse effect on our student population, and consequently, on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV Programs which could reduce our student population, net revenues and/or profit margin. Congress periodically revises the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. Congress most recently reauthorized the HEA in 2008 and the new law contains numerous revisions to the requirements governing Title IV Programs as discussed throughout this Report. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our schools or students to receive funding through these programs could reduce our student population and net revenues. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase administrative costs, reduce the ability of students to finance their education at our schools, and materially decrease student enrollment and result in decreased profitability. A high percentage of the Title IV student loans our students receive were made by one lender and guaranteed by one guaranty agency which exposes us to financial and regulatory risk. In 2009, one lender, Sallie Mae, provided approximately 54% of all FFEL loans that our students received and one student loan guaranty agency, USAF, guaranteed approximately 54% of the FFEL loans made to our students. Sallie Mae and USAF are among the largest student loan lending institutions and guaranty agencies in the 22 Table of Contents United States in terms of loan volume. If loans made by Sallie Mae or guaranteed by USAF were significantly reduced or no longer available and we were not able to timely identify other lenders and guarantors to make and guarantee Title IV Program loans for our students, there could be a delay in our students’ receipt of their loan funds or in our tuition collection, which would reduce our student population. An increase in the regulatory burden on the providers of private loans to our students could increase the cost of borrowing for our students, which could reduce our student population, net revenues and/or profit margin. The 2008 reauthorization of the HEA and related proposed and final regulations place significant new restrictions on the relationships between institutions and the providers of private loans, and require that certain specific terms and disclosures accompany such loans. This increased regulatory burden, coupled with recent adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans (including lenders’ increasing difficulties in reselling or syndicating student loan portfolios) have resulted, and could continue to result, in providers of private loans reducing the availability of or increasing the costs associated with providing private loans to postsecondary students. In particular, loans to students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans have become increasingly difficult to obtain. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in our education programs. If any of these scenarios were to occur, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and our student population could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. If our schools do not maintain their state authorizations, they may not operate or participate in Title IV Programs. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among states. State authorization is also required for students to be eligible for funding under Title IV Programs. Loss of state authorization by any of our schools from the education agency of the state in which the school is located would end that school’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school. If our schools do not maintain their accreditation, they may not participate in Title IV Programs. A school must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED in order to participate in Title IV Programs. Loss of accreditation by any of our schools would end that school’s participation in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school. Our schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if the percentage of their revenue derived from those programs is too high which could reduce our student population. Under the 90/10 Rule, a for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if it derives more than 90% of its revenue, under a calculation mandated by ED and on a cash basis, from those programs for two consecutive institutional fiscal years. The period of ineligibility covers at least the next two succeeding fiscal years, and any Title IV funds already received by the institution and its students during the period of ineligibility would have to be returned to the applicable lender. If an institution exceeds the 90% level for a single year, ED will place the institution on provisional certification for a period of at least two years. In our 2009 fiscal year, under the regulatory formula prescribed by ED, none of our institutions derived more than 76% of its revenues from Title IV Programs. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, such a loss would adversely affect our students’ access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce our student population. 23 Table of Contents Our schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their student loan default rates are too high, which could reduce our student population. An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels. Based upon the most recent student loan default rates published by ED, none of our institutions has student loan default rates that exceed the specified levels. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs because of high student loan default rates, such a loss would adversely affect our students’ access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs which could reduce our student population. If we or our schools do not meet the financial responsibility standards prescribed by ED, we may be required to post letters of credit or our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could be terminated or limited which could reduce our student population or impact our cash flow. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by ED or post a letter of credit in favor of ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV Programs. The operating conditions that may be placed on a school that does not meet the standards of financial responsibility include being transferred from the advance payment method of receiving Title IV Program funds to either the reimbursement or the heightened cash monitoring system, which could result in a significant delay in the institution’s receipt of those funds or increased administrative costs relating to those funds. We are not currently required to post a letter of credit on behalf of any of our schools and are not subject to additional operating conditions. We may be required to post letters of credit in the future, which could increase our costs of regulatory compliance, or change the timing of receipt of Title IV Program funds. Our inability to obtain a required letter of credit or the imposition of other limitations on our participation in Title IV Programs could limit our students’ access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce our student population or impact our cash flow. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational programs. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that has been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing them and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner to ED or the appropriate lender, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of ED, pay interest on the late repayment of funds, or be otherwise sanctioned by ED, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the failure to timely return Title IV Program funds also could result in the termination of eligibility to receive such funds going forward. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to persons involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. A school participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based on success in enrolling students or securing financial aid to any person involved in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If we violate this law we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by ED, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties alleging noncompliance with applicable standards. While we are committed to strict compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and 24 Table of Contents accrediting standards, if the results of government, regulatory or third party reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of regulatory approvals or Title IV Program funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims. Our business and stock price could be adversely affected as a result of regulatory investigations of, or actions commenced against, other companies in our industry. In recent years, the operations of a number of companies in the education and training services industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing on the part of such companies have resulted in formal or informal investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, state governmental agencies and ED. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, focusing not only on the individual schools but in some cases on the for-profit postsecondary education sector as a whole. These investigations of specific companies in the education and training services industry could have a negative impact on our industry as a whole and on our stock price. Furthermore, the outcome of such investigations and any accompanying adverse publicity could negatively affect our business. Budget constraints in some states may affect our ability to obtain necessary authorizations or approvals from those states to conduct or change our operations. Due to state budget constraints in some of the states in which we operate, it is possible that some states may reduce the number of employees in, or curtail the operations of, the state education agencies that authorize our schools. A delay or refusal by any state education agency in approving any changes in our operations that require state approval, such as the opening of a new campus, the introduction of new programs, a change of control or the hiring or placement of new education representatives, could prevent us from making such changes or could delay our ability to make such changes. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students which could reduce our student population. A significant number of states are facing budget constraints that are causing them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. Many of those states, including California and Pennsylvania, provide financial aid to our students. These and other states may decide to reduce or redirect the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any of these reductions will be or how long they will last. If the level of state funding for our students decreases and our students are not able to secure alternative sources of funding, our student population could be reduced. If regulators do not approve our acquisition of a school that participates in Title IV Program funding or the opening of an additional location, the acquired school and/or the additional location would not be permitted to participate in Title IV Programs, which could impair our ability to operate the acquired school and/or the additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school and/or opening of the additional location. If we acquire a school that participates in Title IV Program funding and/or open an additional location, we must obtain approval from ED and applicable state education agencies and accrediting commissions in order for the school and/or additional location to be able to operate and participate in Title IV Programs. While we would attempt to ensure we will be able to receive such approval prior to acquiring a school and/or opening an additional location, approval may be withheld or postponed due to matters outside of our control. An acquisition can result in the temporary suspension of the acquired school’s participation in Title IV Programs and opening an additional location can result in a delay of the campus’ participation in the Title IV Programs unless we submit a timely and materially complete application for recertification or certification to ED and ED grants a temporary certification. If we were unable to timely re-establish or establish the state authorization, accreditation or ED certification of the acquired 25 Table of Contents school, our ability to operate the acquired school and/or additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school and/or additional location could be impaired. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company or any of our schools, our ability to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired. If we or any of our schools experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, our accrediting commission or ED, we or the affected schools must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. These agencies do not have uniform criteria for what constitutes a change of ownership or control. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock or significant changes in the composition of our board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from ED, our accrediting commission or any state in which our schools are located could impair our ability to participate in Title IV Programs. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, approval of any change of control from any state in which we do not have a school but in which we recruit students could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in that state until we receive the required approval. The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV Programs could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock. The impact of new ED regulations could adversely impact our continued participation in the Title IV Programs. ED published regulations relating to, among other things, the relationships between schools and lenders of both private and Title IV Program loans, and the approval and oversight of accrediting agencies in November 2009, which will become effective July 1, 2010. ED is also expected in the near future to propose additional new regulations relating to a broad array of issues, including discretionary grants and general program requirements applicable to the Title IV Programs. In addition, in May 2009, ED announced its intent to establish new negotiated rulemaking committees that are expected to begin their discussions in the fall of 2009 and to address a number of significant issues, including: compensation paid by institutions to persons or entities engaged in student recruiting or admission activities; the monitoring of satisfactory academic progress; state authorization as a component of institutional eligibility; the definition of a credit hour for purposes of determining program eligibility status, particularly in the context of awarding Pell Grants; verification of information on student financial aid applications; and the definition of a high school diploma as a condition of a student’s eligibility for Title IV Program aid. The issues addressed in the regulations that have been or are expected soon to be proposed by ED, as well as the issues to be addressed in the new negotiated rulemaking process concern a number of significant aspects of the Title IV Programs, including eligibility and certification, administrative capability, school-lender relationships, the 90/10 Rule, incentive compensation, and student loan default rates. At this time, we cannot be certain whether and to what extent they may affect our ability to remain eligible to participate in the Title IV Programs or require us to incur additional costs in connection with our administration of the Title IV Programs. Any future changes that jeopardize our eligibility to participate in some or all of the Title IV Programs could materially adversely affect our student population, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business If the FFEL program is discontinued and our processes or information technology systems are not modified in a timely manner to accommodate the Federal Direct Loan Program, we could experience a delay in obtaining funding for our students. Congress is considering legislation that would discontinue the FFEL program under which banks and other lending institutions make loans to students or their parents. The legislation would make such loans available only through the FDL program. If we are not able to modify our process or systems to accommodate the FDL program, or if ED experiences difficulties with the necessary systems and processes to handle increased participation in the FDL program, we could experience a delay in obtaining funding for our students which could have a material impact on our cash flows and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively fill our existing capacity, we may experience a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins. We have underutilized seating capacity at several of our campuses. Our ongoing efforts to fill existing seating capacity may strain our management, operations, employees or other resources. We may not be able to maintain our current seating capacity utilization rates, effectively manage our operation or achieve planned capacity utilization on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to fill our underutilized seating capacity, we may experience operating inefficiencies that likely will increase our costs more than we had planned resulting in a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins. Our proprietary loan program could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our proprietary loan program enables students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other financial aid and are unable to obtain private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition if they meet certain criteria. Under the terms of the proprietary loan program agreements with a national chartered bank, the bank originates loans for our students who meet our specific credit criteria with the related proceeds to be used exclusively to fund a portion of their tuition. We then purchase all such loans from the bank on a monthly basis and assume all the related credit and collection risk. At September 30, 2009, we had committed to provide loans to our students for approximately $17.1 million and of that amount, there was $14.0 million in loans outstanding. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, we placed $2.0 million, an amount that exceeds the FDIC insurance limits, on deposit with the national chartered bank. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions; compliance with laws applicable to the origination; servicing and collection of loans; the quality of our loan servicers’ performance; a decline in graduate employment opportunities; and the priority that the borrowers under this loan program, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. Federal, state and local laws and public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans under our proprietary loan program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend this student loan program for a variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. We rely on two third parties to originate, process and service loans under our proprietary loan program. If these companies fail or discontinue providing such services, our business could be harmed. A small federally chartered national bank with a small market capitalization originates loans under our proprietary loan program. If the bank no longer provides service under the contract, we do not have an alternative bank to fulfill the demand. There are a limited number of national banks that are willing to participate in a program such as our proprietary loan program. The time it could take us to replace the bank could result in an interruption in the loan origination process which could result in a decrease in our student populations. Further, because our $2.0 million deposit at such bank is in excess of the FDIC insurance limits, if such bank were to go out of business or fail, we may lose all or almost all of our deposit. Also, a single company processes loan applications and services the loans under our proprietary loan program. There is a 90-day termination clause in the contract under which they provide these services. If this company were to terminate the contract, we could experience an interruption in loan application processing or loan servicing, which could result in a decrease in our student populations. 27 Table of Contents An increase in interest rates and a tightening of credit markets could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. In recent years, increases in interest rates and a tightening of credit markets have resulted in a less favorable borrowing environment for our students. Much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates. Therefore, increased interest rates have resulted in a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their studies which has resulted in and could result in reductions in our student population and net revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility for Title IV Program participation, which could result in a reduction in our student population. In addition, a tightening of credit markets could adversely impact the ability of borrowers with little or poor credit history, such as many of our students, to borrow the necessary funds at an acceptable interest rate. Increasing fuel prices and living expenses could affect our ability to attract and retain students. Our ability to attract and retain students is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors such as higher fuel prices and living expenses. Affordability concerns associated with increased gas, housing prices and the availability of part-time jobs for students attending classes have made it more challenging and expensive for us to attract and retain students. If we are unable to attract and retain students due to economic factors, our student population may decrease, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Failure on our part to maintain and expand existing industry relationships and develop new industry relationships with our industry customers could impair our ability to attract and retain students. We have an extensive set of industry relationships that we believe affords us a significant competitive strength and supports our market leadership. These types of relationships enable us to support undergraduate enrollment by attracting students through brand name recognition and the associated prospect of high-quality employment opportunities. Additionally, these relationships allow us to diversify funding sources, expand the scope and increase the number of programs we offer and reduce our costs and capital expenditures due to the fact that, pursuant to the terms of the underlying contracts with OEMs, we provide a variety of specialized training programs and typically do so using tools, equipment and vehicles provided by the OEMs. These relationships also provide additional incremental revenue opportunities from training the employees of our industry customers. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand our existing industry relationships and to enter into new industry relationships. Certain of our existing industry relationships, including those with American Honda Motor Co. Inc., American Suzuki Motor Corp., Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corp. and Yamaha Motor Corp., USA, are not memorialized in writing and are based on verbal understandings. As a result, the rights of the parties under these arrangements are less clearly defined than they would be were they in writing. Additionally, certain of our existing industry relationship agreements expire within the next six months. We are currently negotiating to renew these agreements and intend to renew them to the extent we can do so on satisfactory terms. The reduction or elimination of, or failure to renew any of our existing industry relationships, or our failure to enter into new industry relationships, could impair our ability to attract and retain students. As a result, our market share and net revenues could decrease. Competition could decrease our market share and create tuition pricing concerns. The postsecondary education market is highly competitive. Some traditional public and private colleges and universities and community colleges, as well as other private career-oriented schools, offer programs that may be perceived by students to be similar to ours. Most public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies and other financial sources not available to for-profit schools. Some other for-profit education providers have greater financial and other resources which may, among other things, allow them to secure industry relationships with some or all of the OEMs with which we have relationships or develop other high profile industry relationships or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. In addition, some other for-profit education providers 28 Table of Contents already have a more extended or dense network of schools and campuses than we do, thus enabling them to recruit students more effectively from a wider geographic area. We may limit tuition increases or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, net revenues and operating margin may decrease. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements in the automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine industries. Accordingly, educational programs, at our schools must keep pace with those technological advancements. Additionally, the method used to deliver curriculum has been evolving to include on-line delivery. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs, and changes in the method in which we deliver them, may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the technical education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as the industries we serve require or as quickly as our competitors. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our placement rates could suffer. We have a contract with a third party to transform our automotive and diesel programs curriculum into a blended learning experience that reflects current industry training methods and standards. The blended learning model combines several methodologies for communicating training information and incorporates on-site classes, real-time online learning sessions and independent learning and is the standard used by our industry partners to provide continuous technical education. The contract may be terminated by either party with a 30-day notice. If we are not able to effectively and efficiently integrate the transformed curriculum or experience delays in development, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by recession in the U.S. or abroad. The U.S. economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries are in a recession as characterized by reduced economic activity, increased unemployment and substantial uncertainty about their financial services markets. In addition, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events may reduce the demand for our programs among students, the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees, and the ability of our students to find employment in the auto, diesel, motorcycle or marine industries, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In particular, the consolidation of automotive dealerships may result in a shift of employment opportunities for our graduates into automobile aftermarket service from automotive dealerships where, historically, the placement of our graduates has been concentrated. This shift could make it more difficult to place graduates in desirable dealership technician jobs. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. See Risks Related to Our Industry — Our schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs if their student loan default rates are too high, which could reduce our student population, above. Sales of our investments in pre-refunded municipal bonds prior to maturity could result in an adverse effect to our results of operations. In May 2009, we began investing in pre-refunded municipal bonds, which are primarily secured by escrowed-to-maturity U.S. Treasury notes. Municipal bonds represent debt obligations issued by states, cities, 29 Table of Contents counties, and other governmental entities, which earn interest that is exempt from federal income taxes. If we sell these investments prior to maturity, we may not be able to recoup the amount we originally invested. This could have an adverse material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely heavily on the reliability, security and performance of an internally developed student management and reporting system, and any difficulties in maintaining this system may result in service interruptions, decreased customer service, or increased expenditures. The software that underlies our student management and reporting has been developed primarily by our own employees. The reliability and continuous availability of this internal system is critical to our business. Any interruptions that hinder our ability to timely deliver our services, or that materially impact the efficiency or cost with which we provide these services, or our ability to attract and retain computer programmers with knowledge of the appropriate computer programming language, would adversely affect our reputation and profitability and our ability to conduct business and prepare financial reports. In addition, many of the software systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products, either of which could entail considerable effort and expense. Our computer systems as well as those of our service providers are vulnerable to interruption, malfunction or damage due to events beyond our control, including malicious human acts, natural disasters, and network and communications failures. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems may nevertheless cause failures in our information technology systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to process information in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience with our company and within the technical education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, campus presidents, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of our business we face significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire and train new education representatives, as well as retain and continue to develop our existing education representatives, who are our employees dedicated to student recruitment. Our ability to develop a strong education representative team may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our education representatives; our ability to effectively train our education representatives; the length of time it takes new education representatives to become productive; regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating education representatives; the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining education representatives; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain our education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among high school graduates and adults seeking advanced training. The awareness of our programs among high school graduates and working adults seeking advanced training is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. Our inability to continue to develop awareness of our programs could reduce our enrollments and impair our ability to increase net revenues or maintain profitability. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs: • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • diminished access to high school student populations; • our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; • our inability to maintain relationships with automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine manufacturers and suppliers; and • availability of funding sources acceptable to our students. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our net revenues normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in total student population. Student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our schools have had lower student populations in our third fiscal quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year because fewer students are enrolled during the summer months. Our expenses, however, do not generally vary at the same rate as changes in our student population and net revenues and, as a result, such expenses do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of acquisitions, new school openings, new program introductions and increased enrollments of adult students. In addition, our net revenues for our first fiscal quarter are adversely affected by the fact that we do not recognize revenue during the calendar year-end holiday break which falls primarily in that quarter. These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by or under the supervision of our principal executive and principal financial officer, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our internal control structure is also designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraud would be detected or prevented before our financial statements could be materially affected. Because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that our controls may become inadequate as a result of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures may deteriorate. If our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, our historical financial statements could require restatement which could negatively impact our reputation and lead to a decline in our stock price. 31 Table of Contents Failure on our part to effectively identify, establish and operate additional schools or campuses could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy. As part of our business strategy we anticipate opening and operating new schools or campuses. Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools. Accordingly, when we open new schools, initial investments could reduce our profitability. To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by ED. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses. Our failure to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established schools or campuses could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or campuses more costly to operate than we had planned. We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate future acquisitions. We may consider selective acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. Integration challenges include, among others, regulatory approvals, significant capital expenditures, assumption of known and unknown liabilities, our ability to control costs, and our ability to integrate new personnel. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired schools, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, future acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. A future acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets, charges relating to integration costs or an increase in the number of shares outstanding. These results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or result in dilution to current stockholders. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which may become impaired and subject to a write-down. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment, which might result from the deterioration in the operating performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in the applicable laws or regulations and a variety of other circumstances. Any resulting impairment charge would be recognized as an expense in the period in which impairment is identified. Our goodwill resulted from the acquisition of our motorcycle and marine education business in 1998. We allocated such goodwill, which totaled $20.6 million, to two of our reporting units that provide the related educational programs. We assess our goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates estimated future cash flows for the next five years and an associated terminal value. Key management assumptions included in the cash flow model include future tuition revenues, operating costs, working capital changes, capital expenditures and a discount rate that approximates our weighted average cost of capital. While actual experience will differ from the amounts included in our cash flow model, we do not believe that a related impairment of our goodwill is reasonably possible in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 32 Table of Contents 