ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Our disclosure and analysis in this 2006 Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which include information relating to future events, future financial performance, strategies, expectations, competitive environment, regulation and availability of resources. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as verbal forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding: proposed new programs; scheduled openings of new campuses and campus expansions; expectations that regulatory developments or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity; statements concerning projections, predictions, expectations, estimates or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results and future economic performance; and statements of management’s goals and objectives and other similar expressions. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “predicts,” “potential,” “continue,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “future,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, as well as statements in future tense, identify forward-looking statements. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Many events beyond our control may determine whether results we anticipate will be achieved. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove 19 Table of Contents inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Form 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure of our schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations and loss of external financial aid funding. In our 2006 fiscal year, we derived approximately 73% of our net revenues from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this report as Title IV Programs, administered by ED. To participate in Title IV Programs, a school must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified as an eligible institution by ED. As a result, our undergraduate schools are subject to extensive regulation by the state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our undergraduate educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new, or expand our existing, undergraduate educational programs and change our corporate structure and ownership. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an institution defined by ED as a main campus and its additional locations, if any. Under ED’s definition, we have three such institutions. The state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If our schools failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our schools’ operations, terminate our schools’ ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, revoke our schools’ accreditation or terminate their eligibility to receive Title IV Program funds, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. In addition, the loss by any of our institutions of its accreditation necessary for Title IV Program eligibility, or the loss of any such institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, in each case that is not cured within a specified period, constitutes an event of default under our credit facility agreement. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. We believe that we have described the most significant regulatory risks that apply to our schools in the following paragraphs. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV Programs which could reduce our student population, net revenues and/or profit margin. Congress periodically revises the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. In 2006, Congress progressed in reauthorizing the Higher Education Act, however, reauthorization is not complete. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our schools or students to receive funding through these programs could reduce our student population and net revenues. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could result in increased administrative costs and decreased profit margin. 20 Table of Contents If our schools do not maintain their state authorizations, they may not operate or participate in Title IV Programs. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among states. State authorization is also required for students to be eligible for funding under Title IV Programs. Loss of state authorization by any of our schools from the education agency of the state in which the school is located would end that school’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school. If our schools do not maintain their accreditation, they may not participate in Title IV Programs. A school must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED in order to participate in Title IV Programs. Loss of accreditation by any of our schools would end that school’s participation in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school. Our schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if the percentage of their revenue derived from those programs is too high which could reduce our student population. A for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if on a cash accounting basis it derives more than 90% of its revenue, as defined pursuant to applicable ED regulations, from those programs in any fiscal year. In our 2006 fiscal year, under the regulatory formula prescribed by ED, none of our institutions derived more than 75% of its revenues from Title IV Programs. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, such a loss would adversely affect our students’ access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce our student population. We regularly monitor compliance with this requirement in order to minimize the risk that any of our institutions would derive more than the applicable thresholds of its revenue from the Title IV Programs for any fiscal year. If an institution appears likely to approach the threshold, we will evaluate the appropriateness of making changes in student funding and financing to ensure compliance with the 90/10 Rule. Our schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their student loan default rates are too high, which could reduce our student population. An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels. Based upon the most recent student loan default rates published by ED, none of our institutions has student loan default rates that exceed the specified levels. However, the most recent official student loan default rates published by ED for each of our institutions increased in comparison to the prior reported year. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs because of high student loan default rates, such a loss would adversely affect our students’ access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs which could reduce our student population. If we or our schools do not meet the financial responsibility standards prescribed by ED, we may be required to post letters of credit or our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could be terminated or limited which could reduce our student population. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by ED or post a letter of credit in favor of ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV Programs. We are not currently required to post a letter of credit. We may be required to post letters of credit in the future, which could increase our costs of regulatory compliance. Our inability to obtain a required letter of credit or other limitations on our participation in Title IV Programs could limit our students’ access to various government-sponsored student financial aid programs, which could reduce our student population. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational programs. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that has been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing them and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of ED or be otherwise sanctioned by ED, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. Based on our 2005 and 2006 fiscal year Title IV compliance audits, none of our institutions made late returns of Title IV Program funds in excess of ED’s prescribed threshold. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to persons involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. A school participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based on success in enrolling students or securing financial aid to any person involved in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If we violate this law we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by ED. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of non-compliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties. While we are committed to strict compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and accrediting standards, if the results of government, regulatory or third party reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of federal funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims. Our business and stock price could be adversely affected as a result of regulatory investigations of, or actions commenced against, other companies in our industry. In recent years the operations of a number of companies in the education and training services industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing on the part of such companies have resulted in formal or informal investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, state governmental agencies and ED. These actions have caused a significant decline in the stock price of such companies. These investigations of specific companies in the education and training services industry could have a negative impact on our industry as a whole and on our stock price. Furthermore, the outcome of such investigations and any accompanying adverse publicity could negatively affect our business. A high percentage of the Title IV student loans our students receive are made by one lender and guaranteed by two guaranty agencies. In our 2006 fiscal year, one lender, Sallie Mae, provided more than 95% of all FFEL loans that our students received. In addition, in our 2006 fiscal year, two student loan guaranty agencies, EdFund and USAF, guaranteed approximately 30% and 70%, respectively, of the FFEL loans made to our students. Sallie Mae, EdFund and USAF are among the largest student loan lending institutions and guaranty agencies in the United States in terms of loan volume. If loans made by Sallie Mae or guaranteed by EdFund or USAF were significantly reduced or no longer available and we were not able to timely identify other lenders and guarantors to make and guarantee Title IV Program loans for our students, there could be a delay in our students’ receipt of their loan funds or in our tuition collection, which would reduce our student population. 22 Table of Contents Budget constraints in some states may affect our ability to obtain necessary authorizations or approvals from those states to conduct or change our operations. Due to state budget constraints in some of the states in which we operate, it is possible that some states may reduce the number of employees in, or curtail the operations of, the state education agencies that authorize our schools. A delay or refusal by any state education agency in approving any changes in our operations that require state approval, such as the opening of a new campus, the introduction of new programs, a change of control or the hiring or placement of new education representatives, could prevent us from making such changes or could delay our ability to make such changes. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students which could reduce our student population. A significant number of states are facing budget constraints that are causing them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. Those states which provide financial aid to our students include California and Pennsylvania. These and other states may decide to reduce the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any of these reductions will be or how long they will last. If the level of state funding for our students decreases and our students are not able to secure alternative sources of funding, our student population could be reduced. If regulators do not approve our acquisition of a school that participates in Title IV Program funding, the acquired school would not be permitted to participate in Title IV Programs, which could impair our ability to operate the acquired school as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school. If we acquire a school that participates in Title IV Program funding, we must obtain approval from ED and applicable state education agencies and accrediting commissions in order for the school to be able to continue operating and participating in Title IV Programs. An acquisition can result in the temporary suspension of the acquired school’s participation in Title IV Programs unless we submit a timely and materially complete application for recertification to ED and ED grants a temporary certification. If we were unable to timely re-establish the state authorization, accreditation or ED certification of the acquired school, our ability to operate the acquired school as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school could be impaired. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company or any of our schools, our ability to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired. If we or any of our schools experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, our accrediting commission or ED, we or the affected schools must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock or significant changes in the composition of our board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain or a delay in receiving approval of any change of control from ED, our accrediting commission or any state in which our schools are located could impair our ability to participate in Title IV Programs. Our failure to obtain or a delay in obtaining approval of any change of control from any state in which we do not have a school but in which we recruit students could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in that state until we receive the required approval. The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV Programs could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to effectively fill our existing capacity, we may incur higher than anticipated costs and expenses which may result in a deterioration of our operating margins. We have experienced a period of significant growth, opened new campuses and expanded seating capacity since 1998. During fiscal 2006, our growth rate in the number of average students has stabilized which, when combined with the additional capacity created since 1998, has led to underutilized seating capacity throughout 23 Table of Contents 2006. Our efforts to fill existing seating capacity may strain our management, operations, employees or other resources. We may not be able to maintain our current seating capacity utilization rates, effectively manage our operation or achieve planned capacity utilization on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to fill our underutilized seating capacity, we may experience operating inefficiencies that likely will increase our costs more than we had planned resulting in a deterioration of our operating margins. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. In recent years, increases in interest rates have resulted in a less favorable borrowing environment for our students. Much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates. Therefore, the increase in interest rates has resulted in a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their studies which has resulted in and could result in further reductions in our student population and net revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of their education loans. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility for Title IV Program participation, which could result in a reduction in our student population. Lower rates of unemployment and higher fuel prices and living expenses could continue to affect our ability to attract and retain students. Although demand for our graduates remains high, our ability to increase student enrollments is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors such as lower unemployment, higher fuel prices and living expenses. A strong labor market across the country coupled with affordability concerns associated with increased gas and housing prices have made it more challenging and expensive for us to attract and retain students. During fiscal 2006, our growth rate for student enrollments has declined while we have increased capacity which has caused us to invest heavily in sales and marketing efforts and seek out additional funding sources for our students. If these efforts are unsuccessful, our ability to attract and retain students could be adversely affected which could result in a further decline in student enrollments. Failure on our part to maintain and expand existing industry relationships and develop new industry relationships with our industry customers could impair our ability to attract and retain students. We have an extensive set of industry relationships that we believe affords us a significant competitive strength and supports our market leadership. These types of relationships enable us to support undergraduate enrollment by attracting students through brand name recognition and the associated prospect of high-quality employment opportunities. Additionally, these relationships allow us to diversify funding sources, expand the scope and increase the number of programs we offer and reduce our costs and capital expenditures due to the fact that, pursuant to the terms of the underlying contracts, we provide a variety of specialized training programs and typically do so using tools, equipment and vehicles provided by the OEMs. These relationships also provide additional incremental revenue opportunities from training the employees of our industry customers. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand our existing industry relationships and to enter into new industry relationships. Certain of our existing industry relationships, including those with American Honda Motor Co., Inc.; American Suzuki Motor Corp.; Mercury Marine and Yamaha Motor Corp., USA, are not memorialized in writing and are based on verbal understandings. As a result, the rights of the parties under these arrangements are less clearly defined than they would be were they in writing. Additionally, certain of our existing industry relationship agreements expire within the next six months. We are currently negotiating to renew these agreements and intend to renew them to the extent we can do so on satisfactory terms. The reduction or elimination of, or failure to renew any of our existing industry relationships, or our failure to enter into new industry relationships, could impair our ability to attract and retain students. As a result, our market share and net revenues could decrease. Competition could decrease our market share and create tuition pricing concerns. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive. Some traditional public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, offer programs that may be perceived by students to be similar to ours. Most public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government 24 Table of Contents subsidies and other financial sources not available to for-profit schools. Some other for-profit education providers have greater financial and other resources which may, among other things, allow them to secure industry relationships with some or all of our existing OEM relationships or develop other high profile industry relationships or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. In addition, some other for-profit education providers already have a more extended or dense network of schools and campuses than we do, thus enabling them to recruit students more effectively from a wider geographic area. We may limit or reduce increases to tuition or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, net revenues and operating margin may be decreased. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Failure on our part to effectively identify, establish and operate additional schools or campuses could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy. As part of our business strategy we anticipate opening and operating new schools or campuses. Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools. Accordingly, when we open new schools, initial investments could reduce our profitability. To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by ED. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses. Our failure to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established schools or campuses could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or campuses more costly to operate than we had planned. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements in the automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine industries. Accordingly, educational programs at our schools should keep pace with those technological advancements. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the technical education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as the industries we serve require or as quickly as our competitors. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our placement rates could suffer. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience with our company and within the technical education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school directors, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of our business we face significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire and train new education representatives, as well as retain and continue to develop our existing education representatives, who are our employees dedicated to student recruitment. Our ability to develop a strong education representative team may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our education representatives; our ability to effectively train our education representatives; the length of time it takes new education representatives to become productive; regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating education representatives; the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining education representatives; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain our education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among high school graduates and working adults seeking advanced training. The awareness of our programs among high school graduates and working adults seeking advanced training is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. Our inability to continue to develop awareness of our programs could reduce our enrollments and impair our ability to increase net revenues or maintain profitability. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs: • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • diminished access to high school student populations; • our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; and • our inability to maintain relationships with automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine manufacturers and suppliers. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our net revenues normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in total student population. Student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our schools have had lower student populations in our third fiscal quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year because fewer students are enrolled during the summer months. Our expenses, however, do not generally vary at the same rate as changes in our student population and net revenues and, as a result, such expenses do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of acquisitions, new school openings, new program introductions and increased enrollments of adult students. In addition, our net revenues for our first fiscal quarter are adversely affected by the fact that we do not recognize revenue during the calendar year-end holiday break which falls primarily in that quarter. These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by or under the supervision of our principal executive and principal financial officer, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our internal control structure is also designed to provide 26 Table of Contents reasonable assurance that fraud would be detected or prevented before our financial statements could be materially affected. Because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that our controls may become inadequate as a result of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures may deteriorate. If our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, we could incur a negative impact to our reputation and our financial statements could require adjustment which could in turn lead to a decline in our stock price. We determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2006. We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate future acquisitions. We may consider selective acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. Integration challenges include, among others, regulatory approvals, significant capital expenditures, assumption of known and unknown liabilities, our ability to control costs, and our ability to integrate new personnel. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired schools, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, future acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. A future acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets, charges relating to integration costs or an increase in the number of shares outstanding. These results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition or result in dilution to current stockholders. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which may become impaired and subject to a write-down. Our acquisition of the parent company of MMI in January 1998 resulted in the recording of goodwill. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired, was $20.6 million at September 30, 2006, representing approximately 9.7% of our total assets at that date. Goodwill is recorded at its fair value on the date of the acquisition and, under SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment must be recognized as an expense in the period in which we determine that such impairment has occurred. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill would have an adverse effect on our results of operations during the financial reporting period in which the write-off occurs. Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflicts may adversely affect the U.S. economy and may disrupt our provision of educational services. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001 and the ongoing conflict in Iraq, could disrupt our operations. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact our physical facilities or ability to recruit and retain students could significantly affect our ability to provide educational services to our students and thereby impair our ability to achieve our expected results. Furthermore, violent acts and threats of future attacks could adversely affect the U.S. and world economies. In addition, future terrorist acts could cause the United States to enter into a wider armed conflict that could further impact our operations and result in 27 Table of Contents prospective students, as well as our current students and personnel, entering the armed services. These factors could cause significant declines in our student population. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 