Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY We need to raise sufficient additional funds in as short as 30-45 days to continue operations. Our cash and marketable securities on hand as of December 31, 2007, together with our 2008 forecasted revenues and existing backlog will not be sufficient to fund operations through December 31, 2008. We received funding from Perseus in June and August 2007 and March 2008 in an aggregate amount of $16.5 million. We will need to repay these convertible notes with accrued interest due to Perseus in November 2008 in the amount of approximately $19.2 million. If we are unable to repay our obligations to, or obtain an extension of the loans from, Perseus, Perseus will have the right to exercise its rights as a secured creditor and foreclose on the majority of our assets, which could have the effect of forcing us to cease operations. As a secured creditor, Perseus would have the right to be repaid ahead of our shareholders. In addition to the funds raised through March 2008, we need to raise additional funds in as short as 30-45 days to continue operations. Management will need to take additional actions to further reduce operating expenses. Sufficient funds may not be available to us on terms that we deem acceptable, if they are available at all. If we cannot raise sufficient additional funds, we will have to cease operations. We may not be able to execute our plan to increase revenue, improve margins and raise additional capital. As we attempt to execute our plan to increase revenue, improve gross margin, reduce expenses, potentially sell assets and raise additional capital in order to increase our cash balance, a number of factors pose risk and uncertainty, including: • Our ability to enter into new contracts and receive sales orders that will generate contract, product and service revenues; • Our ability to achieve gross margins sufficient to cover our operating expenses and generate positive cash flow; • Our ability to control operating expenses; • Our ability to sell our Waistfield, Vermont facility or to find additional suitable tenants; • The potential acceleration of debt service payments by one of our lenders as the result of subjective acceleration clauses in our debt agreements; • Our ability to secure additional equity capital funding or debt funding in the near future on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our ability to obtain additional funding will be subject to a number of factors, 14 Table of Contents including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional funding unattractive. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution or be subordinated to any rights, preferences or privileges granted to the new equity holders. If we are unable to execute our plan, we may have to cease operations. As a secured creditor, Perseus has rights not available to our stockholders. Under the terms of the securities purchase agreement, as amended, and the notes issued or issuable pursuant thereto, Perseus has rights as a secured creditor that would allow it to be repaid ahead of our stockholders, grant it veto rights over certain of our actions and permit Perseus, in its discretion, to appoint a majority of our board of directors. Perseus has a lien on the assets securing their loan. In the event that we fail to repay any of our debt as it becomes due, become insolvent or become involved in an insolvency proceeding, Perseus, as well as our other secured creditors, would have the right to foreclose on our assets. Perseus and our other secured creditors would be entitled to receive all of the proceeds from liquidating our assets ahead of our stockholders until our obligations to them are repaid in full. Additionally, Perseus’s consent is required before we can, among other things, (i) incur any debt in excess of $1,000,000, (ii) recapitalize or reorganize ourselves or any of our subsidiaries, (iii) authorize, declare or pay any dividend, (iv) redeem or repurchase any shares of our stock, except in certain limited instances, (v) make any material change in the principal line of business of ourselves or any of our subsidiaries, (vi) acquire assets or make capital expenditures in excess of $1,500,000, (vii) institute or settle any material litigation or claim, (viii) approve our annual budget, and (ix) hire a chief executive officer. We have granted Perseus a right of first refusal to fund any future financing transactions we might pursue, with limited exceptions, and we have agreed to register for resale all the shares issuable to Perseus. Perseus also has the right to appoint a majority of our board of directors. Currently, one Perseus representative, John Fox, serves on our board of directors. Our independent registered public accountants have modified their report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accountants have modified their report for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. This modification may negatively affect our stock price, our capital-raising efforts or our ability to enter into new contracts with customers. Even after our Perseus funding, there remains substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, our secured creditors, including Perseus, would have the right to foreclose on our assets. As secured creditors, they would be entitled to the proceeds received from liquidating our assets ahead of our stockholders until our obligations to them are repaid in full. Perseus has the right to acquire a controlling share of our stock and to appoint a majority of our board of directors, and Perseus’s interests may differ from other stockholders. Perseus, through its right to convert its convertible notes into our common stock and to exercise its warrants, could acquire enough shares of our common stock to raise its ownership to greater than 50% of our total outstanding common stock. In addition, under the terms of the securities purchase agreement, Perseus is entitled to representation on our board of directors equal to at least its percentage ownership in our company, assuming exercise of its warrants and conversion of its convertible notes. Based upon our current capitalization, Perseus now has the right under this provision to name a majority of the directors on our board. Pursuant to subsequent agreements between us and Perseus, Perseus has not exercised its right to name a majority of our directors, but it retains the right to do so at any time. Perseus currently has one nominee, John Fox, serving on our board of directors. 15 Table of Contents Through its right to obtain majority ownership of our common stock or to name a majority of our directors, Perseus would be able to control all key decisions regarding our company, including mergers or other business combinations and acquisitions, dispositions of assets, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the incurrence of debt by us and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, Perseus’s right to acquire a controlling interest could discourage a change of control that our other stockholders may favor. If Perseus exercises its rights, it could also use such control for its own advantage to the detriment of our other stockholders and our company. This in turn could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The warrant we issued to Morgan Stanley Wind LLC allows them to purchase up to 8% of our common stock outstanding from time to time; accordingly, any dilution resulting from future issuances of our common stock, options, warrants or other convertible securities will be increased by the effect of this warrant. In connection with our execution of the joint venture agreement with MSW in March 2007, we issued to MSW a warrant entitling them to purchase up to 10% of our common stock outstanding from time to time, including shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options, warrants and other convertible or exchangeable securities. We exited the joint venture agreement with MSW in February 2008, however the warrant we issued to MSW, which now allows them to purchase up to 8% of our common stock remains in place. Accordingly, if we issue any new shares of our common stock, or issue any options or warrants to purchase our common stock or other securities convertible into our common stock, this will trigger a right of MSW under its warrant to acquire additional shares equal to 8% of the new issuance. This feature of the warrant has the effect of increasing the dilution to current stockholders that would result from any issuances of our common stock or securities related to our common stock, including an issuance in connection with any financing transaction we may undertake. Our revenue and results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenue and results of operations to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. In addition, due to our stage of development, we cannot predict our future revenue or results of operations with a precise degree of accuracy. As a consequence, our results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Factors that may affect our results include: • the status of development of our technology, products and manufacturing capabilities; • the cost and availability of raw materials and key components; • warranty and service cost for products in the field; • the introduction, timing and market acceptance of new products introduced by us or our competitors; • the development of strategic relationships and distribution channels; • general economic conditions, which can affect customers’ capital investments and the length of sales cycles; • the development of vehicular PEM fuel cells and renewable energy markets; and • government regulation. We expect to continue to make investments in select areas of our business, particularly in research and product development and in expanding our manufacturing capability. Because the investments associated with these activities are relatively fixed in the short-term, we may be unable to adjust our spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected shortfall in our revenue growth. In addition, because we are in the very early stages of selling our products and have a limited number of customers, we expect our order flow to be uneven from period to period. 16 Table of Contents We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial losses, and we may never become profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since we were founded and anticipate we will continue to incur substantial losses in the future. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $239 million. We cannot predict when we will operate profitably, if ever. We expect to continue to incur expenses related to research and development activities, expansion of our manufacturing capability and selling, general and administrative functions. As a result, we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until we can achieve enough contract business at favorable margins and achieve high enough volumes to cost-effectively produce and sell our hydrogen generators and wind turbine products. Even if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to sustain or increase our profitability in the future. Our future success is uncertain because of our limited commercial history selling many of our products. We have only been shipping commercial models of our hydrogen generators during the last five years. We began shipping commercial models of our 100 kilowatt wind turbine in 2004 and have shipped in very low volumes since that time. Accordingly, there is only a limited basis upon which to evaluate our products, business and prospects, and our future success is uncertain. You should consider the challenges, expenses, delays and other difficulties typically involved in the establishment of a new business, including the continued development of products, development of fully functioning manufacturing operations, refinement of processes and components for our commercial products, recruitment of qualified personnel, ability to manufacture a product which meets cost, reliability and efficiency needs, and achievement of market acceptance for our products. Our businesses are dependent on a small number of customers, and termination of a project by one or more of these customers could harm our business. Typically, sales are made to customers under single contracts. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our largest 5 customers accounted for 31% of our revenues and our largest 10 customers accounted for 44% of our revenues. Because such a high percentage of our sales are concentrated in so few contracts, failure by us or our customers to perform or deliver on any one of these contracts could have a major impact on our annual results of operations. In addition, most of our customer contracts are terminable on short notice. This high concentration of sales in a small number of customers also subjects us to a high degree of customer credit risk and risk of non-performance by our vendors. A single vendor’s late delivery of a key component required for a project, for example, could significantly delay our completion of the project and might trigger liquidated or consequential damages or other penalties as may be stipulated in our contracts with our customers. In the past, we have experienced performance problems with our hydrogen generators. In the past, we have experienced performance problems with some components of our hydrogen generators, specifically hydrogen sensor modules, power supplies and cell stacks, which have required component replacement. We cannot guarantee that further problems related to these or other components or products will not occur and require additional corrective measures. If we are unable to solve these problems, potential purchasers of our products may decline to purchase them, which could affect our ability to grow our revenues. We could also face liability to our customers and harm to our reputation as a result. We may not be able to grow our business if we do not achieve widespread commercial acceptance of our hydrogen generators in the market for delivered hydrogen. We market our hydrogen generators to small and medium volume users of delivered hydrogen. Our method of supplying hydrogen by producing it on-site using PEM electrolysis represents a significant departure from conventional means of supplying hydrogen to end users. PEM electrolysis is a new technology in the markets we are targeting, and we do not know if our targeted customers will accept our product. Our business depends on the 17 Table of Contents widespread commercial acceptance of our hydrogen generators, and we may be unable to grow our business if our targeted customers do not purchase substantial numbers of our hydrogen generators. Our targeted customers, or the distributors whom we intend to use to market to these customers, may not purchase our hydrogen generators at all or in sufficient quantities to support the growth of our business. Our hydrogen generators will require our target customers to make a substantial initial investment. We expect to incur significant expenses as we continue to expand our manufacturing production, and we may not be successful in these efforts. We have expanded our hydrogen generator and wind turbine manufacturing facilities in anticipation of increased demand for our products. If this demand does not materialize, we will not generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs of maintaining, expanding and operating these facilities, which could increase our losses and prevent us from growing our business. We expect to expand production and may experience delays or problems in our expected expansion that could compromise our ability to increase our sales and grow our business. Factors that could delay or prevent our expected production expansion include: • the inability to purchase parts or components in adequate quantities or sufficient quality, including from sole source vendors; • the cost and availability of raw materials; • the failure to increase assembly and test operations; • the failure to hire and train additional manufacturing personnel; and • the failure to develop and implement cost-efficient manufacturing processes and equipment. In addition, we may incur significant manufacturing costs and may experience unforeseen delays and expenses in our product design and manufacturing efforts. If the commercialization of our products is delayed, potential purchasers may also decline to purchase them or choose alternative technologies, both of which could impair our ability to generate revenue in the future. We may not be able to increase revenues in the future if we do not complete the development of new products and technologies. We anticipate that a portion of our future revenue from our business will be derived from the sale or licensing of regenerative fuel cell, wind turbine and power electronics products and technologies which we are currently developing or have only recently made commercially available. Many of these new products and technologies are based on new and unproven designs, and it is difficult to predict whether they will be commercially viable. If we fail to successfully develop and commercialize these products and technologies on the timetable we anticipate or at all, we will be unable to recover the investments we have made in their development and will be unable to grow our revenue from their sale or licensing. In addition, we may not be successful in developing product designs and manufacturing processes that permit the manufacture of our hydrogen generators and fuel cell systems in commercial quantities at commercially acceptable costs while preserving quality. Currently, we sell some of our products for less than it costs to produce them. New technology developments or cost reductions in existing technologies may also delay or prevent the development or sale of some or all of our planned products or make our planned products uncompetitive or obsolete. We rely on third party suppliers and subcontractors for certain components and services, and we could suffer losses if these suppliers and subcontractors fail to fulfill our needs. Many of the components in our distributed generation and hydrogen generation systems, including the proton exchange membrane material used in our PEM products, hydrogen purification system and custom-designed power supplies used in our products, are available only from a limited number of suppliers and in some 18 Table of Contents cases only a single supplier. Some of our suppliers are small- and medium-size companies that may not be able to increase production in an acceptable time period or at acceptable prices or quality levels. In addition, to the extent these components are proprietary products of our suppliers, or the processes used by our suppliers to manufacture these components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative suppliers. Often our suppliers custom engineer components to our specifications for use in our systems. Delayed deliveries, poor quality and warranty issues can delay production of our products or completion of our projects, reduce our profits and damage our relationships with our customers. We have an agreement with one customer providing for construction of power systems that utilize Stirling engine technology. On February 16, 2007, we were notified that the manufacturer of these engines, STM Power, Inc., had ceased operations. We have informed the customer that, due to STM’s cessation of operations, we are likely unable to complete and maintain these power systems as planned. As of December 31, 2007 the Company has recorded additional estimated project losses of approximately $0.8 million, which represents our best estimate of the costs required to resolve the contract. The amount accrued does not consider any proceeds we would receive from our insurance coverage. We rely heavily on electrical, mechanical, civil and structural subcontractors to build and install our distributed generation systems at our customers’ facilities based on detailed specifications and drawings that we provide. Often these subcontracted services account for a high percentage of the overall project cost. Our subcontractors’ failure to perform their services in a timely and quality manner can lead to significant schedule delays, increased costs and performance issues on our projects. These issues can trigger penalties in our contracts, expose us to claims for liquidated and consequential damages, increase our warranty exposure, reduce our profits and damage our relationships with customers if not managed appropriately. Market factors affect our costs and availability of materials. Our products contain a number of materials, from metals to computer components. In particular, platinum is a key component of our PEM fuel cells. Platinum is a scarce natural resource and we are dependent upon a sufficient supply of this commodity. Decreases in the availability or increases in the prices of the commodities or other components of our products could impair our ability to acquire the materials necessary to meet our manufacturing requirements and result in significantly higher prices for those materials, either of which could cause delayed or lost sales and an increase in our manufacturing costs. We may be unable to sell our systems and products and generate revenue if we fail to establish development, engineering, distribution or other strategic relationships. We currently work with a number of other parties who facilitate and enhance many aspects of our distributed generation systems and wind turbine businesses; including technology development, component supply, sales lead generation, engineering support and project installation. We must continue to expand these relationships and develop new relationships in order to grow our business. Failure to do so would negatively affect our future sales growth and results of operations. Because we intend to sell some of our products through third-party distributors, the financial benefits to us of commercializing our products will be dependent on the efforts of others. We intend to enter into additional distribution agreements or other collaborative relationships to market and sell our products. If we are unable to enter into additional distribution agreements, or if our third-party distributors do not successfully market and sell our products, we may be unable to generate revenue and grow our business. We may seek to establish relationships with third-party distributors who also compete with us. In addition, our third-party distributors may require us to provide volume price discounts and other allowances, or customize our products, either of which could reduce the potential profitability of these relationships. 19 Table of Contents We may not recognize revenue in the full amount of our backlog, which could harm our business. Our backlog was approximately $9.2 million as of December 31, 2007. Our backlog includes orders under contracts that in some cases extend for several years. Our estimate of the portion of the backlog as of December 31, 2007 from which we expect to recognize revenue in fiscal 2008 may be inaccurate because the receipt and timing of any revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may never realize revenue from some of the engagements that are included in our backlog. The actual accrual of revenue on engagements included in backlog may never occur or may change because a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early. If we fail to realize revenue from engagements included in our backlog as of December 31, 2007, our revenue and results of operations for fiscal 2008 as well as future reporting periods may be materially harmed. We depend on government contracts for a portion of our revenue and profits and to fund a portion of our research and development relating to new products. Our government contracts relate to research and development on renewable energy technologies, hybrid system architectures and advanced power electronics. Changes in government policy toward distributed generation or budget restrictions may reduce or eliminate funding for these types of research and development activities. Generally, our U.S. government research and development contracts are subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency and require us to obtain or produce components for our systems from sources located in the United States rather than foreign countries. There can be no assurance that our current contracts will be fully funded or that we will be able to secure additional government contracts for similar activities in the future. If such funding were discontinued, we may not have sufficient internal funding to continue with these development efforts and may therefore have to reduce our development of these products, delay their development or abandon them altogether. Discontinuation or delay in our development of proprietary products and technology could limit our ability to execute our business plan and may have an adverse impact on our ability to increase revenues and generate a profit. We are also subject to annual audits of our incurred costs on government contracts by the Defense Contracting Audit Agency, or DCAA. If our actual overhead cost included in our incurred costs is less than the allowable overhead costs billed on these contracts, we may be required to refund the excess overhead costs to the government upon completion of the DCAA audit. Such a refund would negatively affect our financial position and our results of operations in the year in which such costs were incurred. Further, no assurance can be given that the internal controls we have in place to oversee our government contracts are sufficient to prevent isolated violations of applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the agencies determine that we or one of our subcontractors engaged in improper conduct, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the government. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition, which could cause us to lose sales or render our products and services uncompetitive or obsolete. The distributed generation and wind turbine markets are highly competitive and evolving rapidly. We face a wide variety of competitors, including equipment manufacturers, distributors, packagers, system integrators, general contractors, engineering firms, project developers and energy service companies. Many of our competitors are significantly larger and better capitalized than we are and have greater access to financial and other resources, and therefore may be able to devote more resources to the following activities that may allow them to establish a competitive advantage in the marketplace: • sales and marketing of their products and services; • seller financing for the sale of their products or services; • development and commercialization of new technologies; 20 Table of Contents • partnering and other collaborative efforts with sales channel partners, vendors and technology providers; • adaptation to changes in customer requirements; • expanded design, engineering and other performance and service capabilities; and • system and other infrastructure development that reduces costs. The markets for delivered hydrogen and reliable backup power are highly competitive. There are a number of companies located in the United States, Canada and abroad that deliver hydrogen, sell hydrogen generation equipment or are developing PEM fuel cell technology. There are a number of companies that are large, established and well capitalized wind turbine manufacturers. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, including a worldwide presence, name recognition and better historical performance. Each of these companies has the potential to capture market share in the markets we intend to address, which could cause us to lose sales and prevent us from growing our business. New developments in technology may also delay or prevent the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products uncompetitive or obsolete. If this were to occur, we would not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset the cost of developing our hydrogen generators and regenerative fuel cell systems. Our regenerative fuel cell systems and wind turbines are among a number of power technology products being developed today to provide high quality, highly reliable backup power to the existing electric transmission system, or grid. These products include advanced batteries, ultracapacitors, microturbines, flywheels, internal combustion generator sets, superconducting magnetic energy storage devices, other fuel cell types and fuel cells using alternative hydrogen supply applications. Improvements are also being made to the existing electric grid. Technological advances in power technology products and improvements in the electric grid may reduce the attractiveness of our products. We depend on our intellectual property, and our failure to protect it could enable competitors to market products with similar features that may reduce demand for our products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products similar to ours, which could reduce demand for our products. Our success depends substantially upon the internally developed technology that is incorporated in our products. We rely on patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, strategic partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights, however, may be inadequate. We may be unable to prevent unauthorized parties from attempting to copy or otherwise obtaining and using our products or technology. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property as fully as those in the United States. Others may circumvent the trade secrets, trademarks and copyrights that we own, and any of the U.S. patents or foreign patents owned by us or subsequently issued to us may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or rendered unenforceable. In addition, we may not be issued any patents as a result of our pending and future patent applications, and even if any patents are issued, they may not protect our intellectual property rights, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of issued patents. In addition, other parties may independently develop similar or competing technologies designed around any patents that may be issued to us. Most of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application. We seek to protect this proprietary intellectual property, which includes intellectual property that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements with our contactors, distributors, employees and others. These agreements afford only limited protection and may not provide us with adequate remedies for any breach or prevent other persons or institutions from asserting rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use our proprietary information. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation could result in substantial costs, the diversion of resources and the distraction of management, with no assurance of success. 21 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs defending against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary rights of others. The patent situation in the field of wind turbine, distributed generation and PEM fuel cell technology is complex. A large number of patents, including overlapping patents, relating to this technology have been granted worldwide. We are aware of patents in the wind turbine and distributed generation fields held by potential competitors and other third parties, including Ballard Power Systems Inc., General Electric Company, Asea Brown Boveri Ltd., Siemens AG, Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica, S.A., ENERCON GmbH and Mitsubishi Corporation. We are also aware of patents in the fuel cell architecture field held by potential competitors and other third parties, including Ballard Power Systems Inc., General Motors Corporation, Giner, Inc., Oronzio deNora Impianti Elettrochimici S.p.A., Parker-Hannifin Corporation, Hydrogenics Corporation, Lynntech, Inc., Plug Power Inc., Shinko Pantec Co., Ltd., Siemens AG, Toyota Motor Corporation, United Technologies Corporation and Whatman Inc. Third parties could claim infringement by us with respect to these patents or other patents or proprietary rights, and we may incur significant costs defending ourselves in such proceedings, and there is no assurance that we will prevail in any such proceeding. While we have a limited license under a patent held by General Electric Company with respect to variable-speed wind turbines, if we incorporate this type of technology into future wind-related generation products and are not able to design and engineer non-infringing technology, we may be required to extend or modify our license on this technology. If we are unsuccessful in developing non-infringing technologies, we may be required to cease or redirect our development efforts or obtain licensing, royalty or other agreements. There can be no assurance that we can obtain such licensing or other agreements on favorable terms or at all, in which case our ability to execute our business plan, grow our sales and generate a profit may be adversely affected. In addition, some of our employees are parties to assignment of invention and nondisclosure agreements with their former employers. These agreements generally grant the former employer rights to technology developed by the employee while employed by the former employer and prohibit disclosure of that technology or other employer information to third parties. We cannot assure you that such employers will not assert claims against us or our employees alleging a breach of those agreements or other violations of their proprietary rights or alleging rights to inventions by our employees, or that we would prevail in any such proceeding. Any infringement claims against us, whether meritorious or not, could: • be time-consuming; • result in costly litigation or arbitration and diversion of technical and management personnel; or • require us to develop non-infringing technology or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We might not be successful in developing non-infringing technologies. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and could significantly harm our business and results of operations. A successful claim of infringement against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could require us to pay substantial damages and could harm our business because we would not be able to sell the affected product without redeveloping the product or incurring significant additional expense. In addition, to the extent we agree to indemnify customers or other third parties against infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, a claim of infringement could require us to incur substantial time, effort and expense to indemnify these customers and third parties and could disrupt or terminate their ability to use, market or sell our products. International intellectual property protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and we have not obtained or sought patent or trademark protection in many foreign countries where our products and services may be developed, manufactured, marketed or sold. Intellectual property law outside the United States is even more uncertain and costly than in the United States and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. Further, the laws of some foreign 22 Table of Contents countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. Moreover, we have not sought, obtained or maintained patent and trademark protection in many foreign countries in which our products and services may be developed, manufactured, marketed or sold by us or by others. We may be exposed to lawsuits and other claims if our products or systems malfunction or fail or we fail to deliver services, which could increase our expenses, harm our reputation and prevent us from growing our business. Our distributed generation systems often use new and untested technologies. Many of these new technologies have not reached a level of maturity that allows for a predictable level of reliability and may be subject to malfunction or failure when subjected to prolonged use in non-test conditions. Should these new technologies fail to perform as specified by their vendors, we may incur significant warranty and other costs and our relationships with our customers may suffer. Also, many vendors of these new technologies have limited financial resources and may not be able to adequately support their products in the field. All these issues could reduce our growth and profitability. Many of our systems are also located in very remote locations with extremely harsh climates that are difficult and expensive to access. The possibility of system failures could cause us to incur significant expense to redesign, reengineer, repair and/or replace defective systems or system components. In addition, as we expand our overhaul, operations and maintenance services business, we may be subject to additional liability for maintaining distributed generation equipment, including performance of equipment, uptime availability of equipment, maintenance and warranty cost. Because our products are power-producing devices, it is possible that consumers could be injured or killed by our products, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. In particular, hydrogen is a flammable gas and can pose safety risks if not handled properly. We have experienced instances with our products where hydrogen appears to have caused a flame that burned several components in the system. Further investigation of this unit revealed the presence of pinholes in the cell membranes, resulting in hydrogen leakage and cell failure. We cannot be certain that future similar instances will not occur. In addition, our products may require modifications to operate properly under extreme temperatures. Potential customers will also rely upon our products for critical needs, such as backup power. A malfunction of our products could result in significant tort or warranty claims. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products. This could result in a decline in demand for our products, which would reduce our revenue and harm our business. In addition, since sales of our existing products have been modest and the products we are developing incorporate new technologies and use new installation methods, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. We have evaluated the potential risks we face and believe that we have appropriate levels of insurance for product liability claims. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, and if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, we could be required to make significant payments. We conduct business in many countries that are politically and economically unstable. The potential for political unrest, acts of terrorism and war, and economic collapse exists in many countries in which we currently, or may in the future, do business. The occurrence of any such events at or near the site of our projects could lead to delay, cancellation or significant damage to our projects or equipment. The occurrence of any such events could also cause harm, injury or death to our personnel working on such projects. Any such events could expose us to significant liabilities and would therefore adversely affect our results of operations and growth. We also subcontract work or may hire temporary and permanent employees in countries that are politically and economically unstable. It is more difficult to perform background checks on these foreign workers or to be sure that their conduct and performance are in the best interests of our company and in full compliance with applicable laws. 23 Table of Contents Our current or planned international operations subject our business to additional risks, which could cause revenues to decline. A portion of our revenue is generated from sales of equipment and projects in foreign markets. Many of these projects are delivered to distant locations, such as the Middle East, Eurasia, Africa and South America. In addition, we intend to market our hydrogen generators to small- and medium-volume users of delivered hydrogen worldwide. Selling our services and products internationally exposes us to many additional costs, risks and potential liabilities, which, if improperly managed, could limit our ability to grow in these markets and adversely affect our results of operations. These include: • exchange controls; • complying with U.S. legal requirements for the exporting of goods; • complying with the commercial, regulatory and legal requirements of foreign markets, particularly in developing countries; • obtaining and/or enforcing intellectual property protection; • overcoming trade barriers such as duties, tariffs and taxes; • enforcing contract terms and conditions; • collecting receivables; • managing operations and staff across disparate geographic areas; and • currency risks. In addition, a change in the value of the U.S. dollar may make our services and products less competitive in international markets. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY We may not be able to grow our revenues in the future if a sustainable market for our distributed energy, wind turbine products and hydrogen generation products and services does not develop. Our future growth will be based in part on increased use of distributed generation, on the development of a mass market, particularly in the automobile industry, for PEM fuel cells that utilize our hydrogen generators as a fuel source and on growth in the use of renewable energy. These are emerging markets and it is difficult to predict the rate at which they will develop. If a sustainable market for distributed energy technologies fails to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, our ability to grow and achieve profitability will be negatively affected. Many of the factors that influence the rate of adoption of distributed energy and hydrogen generation technologies are out of our control. Some of these factors that we cannot control are: • utility electric rates; • changes in federal, state and local regulatory requirements; • changes in federal and state incentives and subsidies; • cost, quality, performance and availability of the alternative power generation technologies used or supported by our power systems and hydrogen generators; • costs and availability of natural gas, diesel, hydrogen and other fuels used in distributed energy technologies; • changes in customers’ perceptions regarding distributed generation, PEM fuel cells and alternative energy; • customer reluctance to try new products and technology; • availability of financing for distributed generation vendors, developers and users; 24 Table of Contents • economic downturns and related reductions in capital spending; • demand for and valuation of emissions trading credits generated by distributed generation systems; and • the emergence of newer, more competitive technologies. If we fail to retain key personnel and attract and retain additional qualified personnel, we may be unable to develop our products and generate revenue. Our success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key employees such as manufacturing and research and development personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or key employees could impair our ability to pursue our growth strategy. We do not have employment agreements with many of our key executives. We may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain additional highly qualified personnel in the future. We may be affected by skilled labor shortages and labor disputes. We require experienced engineers, technicians and machinists to conduct our business. No assurance can be given that the supply of these skilled persons will always be adequate to meet our requirements or that we will be able to attract an adequate number of skilled persons. Labor disputes could also occur at our manufacturing facilities, which may affect our business. While our employees are not currently represented by labor unions or organized under collective bargaining agreements, labor disputes could occur at any of our facilities. Declines in the price of utility-delivered electricity or our inability to continue to reduce the cost of our distributed generation systems could reduce demand for our services and products. Our distributed generation systems compete mainly on price per delivered kilowatt-hour of electricity to the end user. In the domestic market, we compete against the cost of electricity delivered by the local utilities through the electric grid. The cost of electricity varies widely from utility to utility and from state to state and is subject to change based on factors beyond our control. We cannot accurately predict what future electricity rates will be and whether or not we can compete effectively against these rates. The cost per delivered kilowatt-hour of electricity generated by our on-site power systems is also based primarily on the following three factors: the cost of the underlying generating technologies, the cost of financing, and the cost of fuel. All these factors are outside of our control. • Costs of alternative power generation technologies like solar panels and wind turbines have generally been falling over the past several years, but there can be no assurance that they will continue to fall in the future. Without federal or state subsidies or incentives, the cost of these technologies is often not competitive with traditional generating technologies or the cost of utility power. If the costs of these alternative technologies do not continue to fall or subsidies are no longer available, our ability to sell systems and services based on these technologies will be diminished. • Financing costs are critical to the cost competitiveness of renewable energy. Since fuel from the wind or sun is free, financing costs represent the single largest operating cost. Financing costs are also highly variable and subject to change beyond our control. If financing costs increase, it could reduce demand for our products. • For reciprocating engine or turbine-based power systems, fuel is the largest operating cost. The predominant fuel for these systems is natural gas. The price of natural gas has been highly volatile and is currently projected to remain high for several years based on increased demand and limited domestic supply. Sustained high gas prices reduce the economic benefit of the on-site power systems we sell and may therefore cause us to experience reduced sales and revenue growth. 25 Table of Contents Utility companies could place barriers to our entry into the market, and we may not be able to effectively sell our products and systems. Utility companies could place barriers on the installation of our products and systems or their interconnection with the electric grid. Further, they may charge additional fees to customers who install on-site generation systems, thereby reducing the electricity they take from the utility, or who use power from the grid for backup or standby purposes. These types of restrictions, fees or charges could impair the ability of our potential customers to install or effectively use our products and systems or increase the cost to our potential customers for using our products and systems. This could make our products and systems less desirable, thereby adversely affecting our revenue and profitability potential. Decreases in the price of oil and gas could reduce demand for our distributed generation and wind turbine systems, which would harm our ability to grow our business. Most of our wind turbine products are sold for use in power systems used by remote communities to replace or augment internal combustion engines. Demand for our wind turbines from this market segment depends in part on the current and future commodity prices of oil and gas. Higher oil and gas prices provide incentives for customers to invest in technologies such as wind turbines that reduce their need for petroleum-based fuels. Conversely, lower oil and gas prices would tend to reduce the incentive for customers to invest in capital equipment to produce electrical power. Continued uncertainty in domestic and world economies and energy markets may limit our growth. Current uncertainty among our target customers over the health of the economy and its impact on their business has restricted their capital spending and made it harder for us to sell our distributed generation systems and services. Other market uncertainties that also affect our ability to increase sales include the future of deregulation of the domestic electricity market, the future price of oil and natural gas, political instability in the Middle East and other regions where we do business, and domestic and international policy responses to environmental issues. Because sales of our distributed generation systems are reliant in part on federal and state subsidies and incentives, any reduction in federal or state subsidy programs could harm our business. The domestic market for our distributed generation systems currently benefits from many federal and state programs designed to promote increased use of renewable and distributed generation technologies. The federal government, for example, offers tax credits for energy produced by wind and solar generators. States like California, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts offer cash incentives which reduce the initial capital cost to customers who invest in renewable and distributed generation systems. All these federal and state incentive and subsidy programs have specific expiration dates and there can be no assurance that these programs will be extended. Termination of one or more of these programs may have an adverse impact on our future growth. Additionally, there can be no assurance that new programs will be created. In an economic downturn, with resulting budget deficits, funding for many of the state programs may be at risk of being diverted to other needs. Government regulations may impair our ability to market and sell our products. Our products and projects are potentially subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing, among other things, waste water discharge and air emissions as well as laws relating to occupational health and safety. We may incur substantial costs or liabilities in complying with governmental regulations. Our potential customers must also comply with numerous laws and regulations, which could affect their interest in our products and projects. We could incur potentially significant expenditures in complying with environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 26 Table of Contents Electricity generation and delivery are both heavily regulated by federal and state governments. While deregulation and restructuring of the U.S. power industry may ultimately expand the market for distributed generation systems of the type that we sell, recent problems associated with deregulation in key domestic markets like California may impose additional barriers to distributed generation. California and other states, for example, allow utilities to impose exit fees, standby charges and other penalties on customers who install distributed generation systems. Federal and state regulations regarding air quality and interconnection to the utility grid also impose additional costs and potential liabilities on our business. Changes in these regulations could reduce or eliminate our access to certain of our target markets. Changes in regulatory standards or policies could reduce the level of investment in the research and development of alternative power sources. Any reduction or termination of such programs can increase the cost to our potential customers, making our systems less desirable, and thereby adversely affecting our revenue and results of operations. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. We are required to comply with all federal, state, local and foreign regulations regarding protection of the environment. If more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, under some foreign, federal and state statutes and regulations, we may be deemed responsible for investigative and remedial costs at formerly owned or operated locations, or at third party sites at which our wastes were disposed. OTHER RISKS Our stock may be delisted, which would affect its ability to be readily traded On September 14, 2007, we received a notification from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department providing notification that, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we were provided 180 calendar days, or until March 12, 2008, to regain compliance. On January 30, 2008, our board of directors authorized us to apply to transfer the listing of our shares from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market. On February 14, 2008, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department informed us that our application to transfer the listing of our shares to the NASDAQ Capital Market had been approved, and on February 19, 2008, our shares began trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. As a result of the transfer of the listing of our common shares to the NASDAQ Capital Market, we have been afforded the NASDAQ Capital Market’s additional 180 calendar-day period, or until September 8, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To regain compliance, the bid price of our common stock must close at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive business days at any time prior to September 8, 2008. If we do not regain compliance, our common stock will be delisted. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be eligible to trade on the National Association of Securities Dealers’ Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board System, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the “pink sheets.” There can be no assurance that our common stock will be eligible for trading on any alternative system, and, even if it is so eligible, the liquidity and marketability of shares of our common stock will decrease. 27 Table of Contents Our stock price is likely to be highly volatile and may result in substantial losses for investors purchasing shares. The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular, has been highly volatile. As a result, investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their common stock regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Our common stock may not trade at the same levels as other technology-related stocks, and technology-related stocks in general may not sustain their current market prices. In addition, an active public market for our securities may not be sustained. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • our perceived prospects; • variations in our operating results and achievement of key business targets; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or earnings estimates; • the inclusion of a going concern modification in our independent registered public accountant’s audit report; • differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; • announcements of new products by us or our competitors; • market sentiment toward power technology and alternative energy stocks in general or to us in particular; • trading of options or other derivatives on our common stock; • market reaction to any acquisition, joint venture or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors; and • general economic or stock market conditions unrelated to our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could inhibit a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and diminish the voting rights of the holders of our common stock. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of us, even if a change in control may be considered favorable by our stockholders. For example, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may be adversely affected. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may result in the loss of voting control to other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain other provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including: • only one of the three classes of directors is elected each year; • stockholders have limited ability to remove directors; • stockholders cannot take actions by written consent; 28 Table of Contents • stockholders cannot call a special meeting of stockholders; and • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors or submit proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction. They could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our common stock. These provisions may also prevent changes in our management. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings to support operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 