ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that appear in this on Form 10-K or that we have made or will make elsewhere. Risks Relating to our Business The education sector, in which all of our businesses are conducted, and the telecommunication sector, upon which we are heavily reliant, each are subject to extensive regulation in China, and our ability to conduct business is highly dependent on our compliance with these regulatory frameworks. The Chinese government regulates all aspects of the education sector, including licensing of parties to perform various services, pricing of tuition and other fees, curriculum content, standards for the operations of schools and learning centers associated with online degree programs and foreign participation. The Chinese laws and regulations applicable to the education and telecommunication sectors are in some aspects vague and uncertain, and often lack detailed implementing regulations. These laws and regulations also are subject to change, and new laws and regulations may be adopted, some of which may have retroactive application or have a negative effect on our business. Moreover, there is considerable ongoing scrutiny of the education sector and its participants. We must comply with China’s extensive regulations on private and foreign participation in the education and telecommunication sectors, and compliance with such restrictions has caused us to adopt complex structural arrangements with our Chinese subsidiaries and Chinese affiliated entities. If the relevant Chinese authorities decide that our structural arrangements do not comply with these restrictions, we would be precluded from conducting some or all of our current business and our financial condition, results of operations and business strategy may be materially and adversely affected. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, particularly as they relate to the education and telecommunications sectors. We cannot assure you that we will not be found to be in violation of any current or future Chinese laws and regulations. PRC laws and regulations currently require any foreign entity that invests in the education business in China to be an educational institution with relevant experience in providing educational services outside of China. We have acquired the holding companies of FTBC and Lijiang College through our wholly owned subsidiaries in China. However, our Delaware holding company and our subsidiaries out of China are not educational institutions and do not provide educational services, in addition, our wholly owned subsidiaries in China, which are considered foreign-invested, may be considered ineligible to acquire the holding companies of FTBC and Lijiang College to indirectly obtain education licenses and permits in China. Even if a Delaware holding company were to become an educational institution in the future, there is no assurance that the PRC Ministry of Education or any other regulator in China would retrospectively approve of an ownership of FTBC or Lijiang College. If we or any of our Chinese subsidiaries or Chinese affiliated entities are found to be or to have been in violation of Chinese laws or regulations requiring foreign ownership or participation in the education sector to be by an established foreign educational institution or limiting foreign ownership or participation in the education or telecommunication sectors, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: • levying fines and confiscating illegal income; • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds to finance our business and operations in China; • requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our Chinese subsidiaries or Chinese affiliated entities; • requiring us to discontinue all or a portion of our business; and/or • revoking our business licenses. 11 Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct all or a substantial portion of our business operations, and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The tuition charged by the Satellite Operating Entities for certain programs, and the post-secondary and diploma programs that we provide curriculum programs to are all subject to price controls administered by the Chinese government, and our revenue is highly dependent on the level of these tuition charges. Our revenue from e-Learning services comes primarily from service fees that are paid by customers or students and calculated as a percentage of the tuition revenue of the Satellite Operating Entities, ChinaCast Company Ltd — Beijing Branch and ChinaCast Li Xiang Co. Ltd. We provide services to these entities and the tuition charges for these programs are subject to price controls administered by various price control offices under China’s National Development and Reform Commission, or NDRC. Similarly, our revenue from the curriculum programs that we offer to post-secondary and diploma programs is also directly dependent on the tuition revenue of those schools, and those tuition charges are subject to administrative price controls. In light of the substantial increase in tuitions and other education-related fees in China in recent years, China’s price control authorities may impose stricter price control on tuition charges in the future. If the tuition charges upon which our revenue depends, particularly the tuition charges for Satellite Operating Entities, were to be decreased or if they were not to increase in line with increases in our costs because of the actions of China’s administrative price controls, our revenue and profitability would be adversely affected. We and the Satellite Operating Entities have a relatively short operating history and are subject to the risks of a new enterprise, any one of which could limit growth, content and services, or market development. Our short operating history makes it difficult to predict how our businesses will develop. In addition, while we have historically provided distance learning services, we have only recently started our for-profit, post-secondary education business. Accordingly, we face all of the risks and uncertainties encountered by early-stage companies, such as: • uncertain growth in the market for, and uncertain market acceptance of, products, services and technologies; • the evolving nature of for-profit education and e-Learning services and content; and • competition, technological change or evolving customer preferences that could harm sales of services, content or solutions. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities are not able to meet the challenges of building businesses and managing growth, the likely result will be slowed growth, lower margins, additional operational costs and lower income. We may not be able to successfully execute future acquisitions or efficiently manage the businesses we have acquired to date or may acquire in the future. In October 2009, we acquired 100% of the equity of East Archive Limited, the holding company which owns 100% of Lijiang College. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions. In addition, the revenue and cost synergies that we expect to achieve from our acquisitions may not materialize. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We expect to continue to expand, in part, by acquiring complementary businesses. The success of our past acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend upon several factors, including: • our ability to identify and acquire businesses on a cost-effective basis; • our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively; • our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the students of the acquired businesses; • unanticipated problems or legal liabilities of the acquired businesses; and • tax or accounting issues relating to the acquired businesses. 12 If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional complementary companies. The integration of acquired companies diverts a great deal of management attention and dedicated staff efforts from other areas of our business. A successful integration process is important to realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we encounter difficulty integrating our recent and future acquisitions, our business may be adversely affected. The acquisitions may not result in the expected growth or development, which may have an adverse effect on our business. We plan to continue to make strategic acquisitions, and identifying acquisition opportunities could demand substantial management time and resources. Negotiating and financing the potential acquisitions could involve significant cost and uncertainties. If we fail to continue to execute advantageous acquisitions in the future, our overall growth strategy could be impaired, and our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate any acquired business, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we use our equity securities as consideration for acquisitions, the value of your common stock may be diluted. Failure to effectively and efficiently manage the expansion of our school network may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities. We plan to continue to expand our operations in different geographic locations in China. This expansion has resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial demands on our management, faculty, operational, technological and other resources. Our planned expansion will also place significant demands on us to maintain the consistency of our teaching quality and our culture to ensure that our brand does not suffer as a result of any decreases, whether actual or perceived, in our teaching quality. To manage and support our growth, we must improve our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls, and recruit, train and retain additional qualified teachers and management personnel as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations, recruit and retain qualified teachers and management personnel and integrate new schools and learning centers into our operations. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, which in turn may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to achieve or maintain economies of scale with respect to our various lines of business, our results of operations from these businesses may be materially and adversely affected. Each of our lines of business involves a degree of upfront investment in the development of programs or the acquisition of contract rights to provide services to programs, and our revenue and profitability depend on the number of students in these programs. The Satellite Operating Entities to which we provide support and services, and from which we derive a significant portion of our revenue and profits, require considerable investments of time and resources to develop. In many cases, these Satellite Operating Entities also require that we make substantial investments in collaborative alliances. The profitability of these programs for us depends on the ability of the programs to attract students. If the programs or schools are unable to recruit enough students to offset the development and operating costs, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Because we face significant competition in several of our lines of business, we could lose market share and may need to respond by lowering our prices, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The private education sector in China is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and competitive, and we expect competition in this sector to persist and intensify. We face competition in each major program we offer and each geographic market in which we operate. Our student enrollments may decrease due to intense competition. While we are trying to enter into agreements with additional post-secondary and diploma programs with respect to their degree programs, we face competition from other service providers and may not succeed in our efforts. 13 There are also many new entrants seeking to participate in the education sector in China, including for-profit and not-for-profit educational institutions from overseas that are attracted by the education market in China. Although restrictive regulation of the education sector in China may have limited our competition in the past, any deregulation of this industry, or easing of restrictions on foreign participants, could increase the competition we face in one or more lines of business. We may not compete successfully with large, well-funded state-owned and private enterprises in our e-Learning industry, which could result in reduced revenue. Competition in providing education/training and enterprise data networking service is becoming more intense in the PRC. Large, well-funded state-owned enterprises, such as China Telecom, China Netcom, China Unicom, China Railcom, China Sat, China Orient, Guangdong Satellite Telecom and China Educational TV, as well as private enterprises like chinaedu.net, Beida Online, Ambow, and Tengtu, may offer services that are comparable or superior to ours. As there are no independent market surveys of our business segments, we are unable to ascertain our market share accurately. Failure to compete successfully with these state-owned enterprises will adversely affect our business and operating results. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities fail to keep pace with rapid technological changes, especially in the satellite and distance learning and education and post-secondary education industries, our competitive position will suffer. Our market and the enabling technologies (including satellite and distance learning technology) used in our education/training business are characterized by rapid technological change. As our services are primarily based on satellite broadband infrastructure, we rely on the Satellite Operating Entities. As such, CEC also relies on the Satellite Operating Entities to keep pace with technological changes. Prior to our acquisition of CCH, CCH’s stockholders provided it the funding it required to expand and to provide the Satellite Operating Entities with the financial support to acquire required technology. Failure to respond to technological advances could make our business less efficient, or cause our services to be of a lesser quality than our competitors. These advances could also allow competitors to provide higher quality services at lower costs than we can provide. Thus, if we are unable to adopt or incorporate technological advances, our services will become uncompetitive. Our ability to attract and retain customers and students is heavily dependent on our reputation, which in turn relies on our maintaining a high level of service quality. We need to continue to provide high quality services to our existing customers and students to maintain and enhance our reputation, and we also need to attract and retain customers and students for our various lines of business. All of our business lines are highly dependent on existing and potential students perceiving our programs as high quality and worth the investment of time and money that they require of students. If any of the programs we operate or support experience service quality problems, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our dedicated and capable faculty, and if we are not able to continue to hire, train and retain qualified teachers, we may not be able to maintain consistent teaching quality throughout our school network and our brand, business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our teachers are critical to maintaining the quality of our programs, services and products and maintaining our brand and reputation, as they interact with our students on a daily basis. We must continue to attract qualified teachers who have a strong command of the subject areas to be taught and meet our qualification. We also seek to hire teachers who are capable of delivering innovative and inspirational instruction. There are a limited number of teachers in China with the necessary experience to teach our courses and we must provide competitive compensation packages to attract and retain qualified teachers. In addition, criteria such as commitment and dedication are difficult to ascertain during the recruitment process, in particular as we continue to expand and add teachers at a faster pace to meet rising student enrollments. We must also provide continuous training to our teachers so that they can stay abreast of changes in student demands, admissions and assessment tests, admissions standards and other key trends necessary to effectively teach their respective courses. We may not be able to hire, train and retain enough qualified teachers to keep pace with our anticipated growth while maintaining consistent teaching quality across many different schools, learning centers and programs in different geographic locations. Shortages of qualified teachers or decreases in the quality of our instruction, whether actual or perceived in one or more of our markets, may have a material and adverse effect on our business. 14 We may not succeed in attracting additional customers or students and our growth prospects could suffer. Although our strategy is to increase the number of customers and students using our services, we may not be able to attract additional customers or students. Developing and entering into a relationship with a customer requires considerable effort on our part, and we may spend considerable time and still may not be successful in developing a new customer. Our ability to expand our services to additional customers and students is dependent on our ability to identify potential partners who can provide course offerings that will be attractive to the target market and to develop a mutually acceptable arrangement with the university for the development of a program. Some of the universities offering online degree programs that do not utilize our services have developed their own technology platforms, and others have entered into service agreements with other service providers. Some of the universities we would like to partner with may not have goals and objectives that are compatible with ours, may be subject to long-term contracts with other service providers, or may have cumbersome decision-making procedures that may delay or prohibit our entering into a service relationship with them. In addition, some of these universities are also being pursued by our competitors. As a result, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in attracting additional universities to which we can provide services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing new service relationships, our strategic growth objectives may not be achieved, thereby adversely impacting our prospects and results of operations. Our business may be harmed if the Satellite Operating Entities upon which we rely fail to perform their obligations. We provide services over broadband satellite. Pursuant to the technical services agreement between them, CEC provides technical services to ChinaCast Li Xiang Co. Ltd. (“CCLX”), which is licensed to provide value-added satellite broadband services in the PRC and to the Beijing Branch (“CCLBJ”) of ChinaCast Co. Ltd. (“CCL”) (CCLX and CCLBJ sometimes referred to as the “Satellite Operating Entities”). CEC provides its technical services to customers or students of the Satellite Operating Entities, whom it considers to be its own customers or students. CEC also engages the Satellite Operating Entities to provide the required satellite broadband service when a customer in China engages CEC directly. CEC has management control over, but does not own directly or indirectly, CCLX or its parent, CCL. It has no management control over CCL other than the operation of CCLBJ. CCL owns 90% of CCLX. Although the technical services agreement and the pledge agreements executed by the stockholders of CCL and CCLX in CEC’s favor contains contractual safeguards to protect CEC’s interests, these safeguards may not be enforceable or effective due to lack of conducting share pledge registation with competent governmental authorities or some other reasons. We have no other legal control over the Satellite Operating Entities. As such, we are dependent on the due performance by the Satellite Operating Entities of their obligations, and if they fail to perform their obligations under or terminate the technical services agreement between them, we will be unable to provide our services. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities do not manage growth successfully, our growth and chances for continued profitability may slow or stop. We and the Satellite Operating Entities have expanded operations rapidly during the last several years, and we plan to continue to expand with additional solutions tailored to meet the different needs of end customers and students in specific market segments. This expansion has created significant demands on administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources, particularly the need for working capital. Additional expansion in existing or new markets and new lines of business could strain these resources and increase the need for capital, which may result in cash flow shortages. We or the Satellite Operating Entities’ personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support further expansion. 15 Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility and adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations, primarily due to seasonal changes in the number of students who are enrolled in, or served by, our businesses. Historically, our largest revenue student enrollments occur in the fall, and we generally recognize revenue over the twelve-month period following these enrollments. As a result, our revenue in the third quarter and fourth quarter of each year, representing the fall semester, have been higher than the other two quarters, which represent the spring semester. Our expenses and costs, however, do not necessarily correspond with changes in our revenue or the number of students who are enrolled in, or served by, our businesses. We expect quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations to continue. These fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect the price of our common stock. As our revenue grows, these seasonal fluctuations may become more pronounced. Unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures, natural disasters, or unauthorized tamperings with systems could disrupt our operations. The continual accessibility of our web sites and the performance and reliability of CCLX’s satellite network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain users, customers, students and merchants. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services, or increases response time, could reduce our appeal to users, customers and students. Factors that could significantly disrupt our operations include: • system failures and outages caused by fire, floods, earthquakes or power loss; • telecommunications failures and similar events; • software errors; • computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems; and • security breaches related to the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers or other personal information. We and CCLX have limited backup systems and redundancy. Future disruptions or any of the foregoing events could damage our reputation, require us to expend significant capital and other resources and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Furthermore, as we rely on CCLX to provide the satellite network infrastructure, if CCLX suffers such disruptions or failure, we may have to provide CCLX with substantial financial support. Neither we nor CCLX carries any business interruption insurance to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Accordingly, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected if any of the above disruptions should occur. If we and the Satellite Operating Entities lose key management personnel, our business may suffer. Our continued success is largely dependent on the continued services of our key management personnel, as well as those of the Satellite Operating Entities, and on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train and retain qualified employees for technical, marketing and managerial positions. The loss of the services of certain of our or the Satellite Operating Entities’ key personnel, including Messrs. Chan and Li, without adequate replacement, could have an adverse effect on us. Each of these individuals played significant roles in developing and executing our overall business plan and maintaining customer relationships and proprietary technology systems. While none is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of any would be disruptive to our business. Competition for qualified personnel in Chinese telecommunications and Internet-related markets is intense. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining them. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules that now require every public reporting company to include in its annual report management’s report on internal control over financial reporting, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, certain registrants are required to include an attestation report from an independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of such registrant’s internal control over financial reporting. 16 We have made and may, in the future make, acquisitions of entities whose financial controls are not up to the standards required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As part of our integration of these entities, we will need to bring their internal controls up to required standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully establish in a timely manner all required internal controls with respect to entities that we acquire. If we fail to establish and maintain the adequacy of the internal controls of entities that we acquire, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting of our company as a whole. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Our stockholders may have securities law claims against us for rescission or damages that are not extinguished by consummation of the acquisition of CCH. On March 21, 2006, after obtaining the approval of our stockholders, we amended our certificate of incorporation, the effect of which was, among other things, to eliminate the provision of our certificate of incorporation that purported to prohibit amendment of the “business combination” provisions contained therein and to extend the date before which we must complete a business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, from March 23, 2006 to December 31, 2006. Because extending the period during which we could consummate a business combination was not contemplated by our IPO prospectus, our stockholders may have securities law claims against us for rescission (under which a successful claimant would have the right to receive the total amount paid for his or her shares, plus interest and less any income earned on the shares, in exchange for surrender of the shares) or damages (compensation for loss on an investment caused by alleged material misrepresentations or omissions in the sale of the security). Such claims might entitle stockholders asserting them to up to US$6.00 per share of common stock, based on the initial offering price of the public units comprised of stock and warrants, less any amount received from sale of the original warrants purchased with them and plus interest from the date of our IPO. A successful claimant for damages under federal or state law could be awarded an amount to compensate for the decrease in value of his or her shares caused by the alleged violation (including, possibly, punitive damages), together with interest, while retaining the shares. We may be subject to securities laws claims regarding past disclosures. We may be subject to claims for rescission or other securities law claims resulting from our failure to disclose that our charter provision purporting to prohibit certain amendments was possibly inconsistent with Delaware’s General Corporation Law. We may also be subject to such claims as a result of inaccuracies in other disclosures, as follows: It may be argued that our IPO prospectus misstated the vote required by its charter to approve a business combination by providing that “[w]e will proceed with a business combination only if the public stockholders who own at least a majority of the shares of common stock sold in [that] offering vote in favor [of it]...,” and that our Exchange Act reports have been inaccurate in describing CCH as a leading provider of e-Learning content (as opposed to being primarily a content carrier). On November 13, 2006, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC regarding this last item. We are unable to predict the likelihood that claims might be made with regard to the foregoing or estimate any amounts for which it might be liable if any such claim was made. We may be subject to fines and other potential penalties as a result of filings made in connection with acquisitions of PRC companies. Under applicable PRC law and regulations, a corporate legal entity must apply to the PRC government for a change in registration when a shareholder transfers its equity interest in the company. We have made such filings in connection with the acquisition of our ownership interest in the holding company of FTBC and in connection with the acquisition of our ownership interest in Lijiang College and would be required to make such filings in connection with other acquisitions we may make in the future. If such filings are not made in compliance with regulatory requirements or contain erroneous information, we may be subject to administrative fines and/or the suspension of the business licenses of the acquired business in the event that we fail to remedy the situation within such time limit as may be permitted by law. Although we believe the filings we made in connection with our acquisition of the holding company of FTBC and Lijiang complied with applicable law, we intend to amend the filing made in connection with our acquisition of FTBC, and may amend our filing for Lijiang, to more fully disclose the terms of the acquisition, consistent with our disclosures in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. No assurance can be given that we will not be subject to a fine or that such holding company would not be subject to a possible suspension as a result of such amendment. 17 Foreign Exchange Risk Changes in the conversion rate between the RMB and foreign currencies, such as Hong Kong or United States dollars, may adversely affect our profits. CEC bills its customers or students in Chinese RMB, but 13.6%, 3.0% and 0% of its revenues in fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, were collected in Hong Kong dollars. In addition, 24.3%, 14.9% and 13.5% of its purchases/expenses in those fiscal periods, respectively, were in United States dollars; 1.3%, 0% and 0% were in Singapore dollars; and 8.5%, 3.1% and 2.9% were in Hong Kong dollars during these same periods. The remainder of its revenues and expenses/purchases were in Chinese RMB. As such, we may be subject to fluctuations in the foreign exchange rates between these currencies. The RMB is not a freely convertible currency. The State Administration for Foreign Exchange, under the authority of the People’s Bank of China, controls the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. The value of the RMB is subject to changes in central government policies and to international economic and political developments affecting supply and demand in the China Foreign Exchange Trading System market. Neither we nor our subsidiaries have a formal hedging policy with respect to foreign exchange exposure. In the future, we may hedge exchange transactions after considering the foreign currency amount, exposure period and transaction costs. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to foreign currencies could affect our operating results. We prepare our financial statements in Renminbi. The translation of RMB amounts into U.S. dollars is included for the convenience of readers, but payroll and other costs of non-U.S. operations will be payable in foreign currencies, primarily Renminbi. To the extent future revenue is denominated in non-U.S. currencies, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have a material adverse affect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. As our operations will be primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against this currency, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. Chinese foreign exchange controls may limit our ability to utilize CEC’s revenues effectively and receive dividends and other payments from our Chinese subsidiaries. CEC’s 98.5% owned subsidiary, ChinaCast Technology (Shanghai) Limited (“CCT Shanghai”), is subject to Chinese rules and regulations on currency conversion. The Chinese government regulates the conversion of the Chinese RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises, of which CCT Shanghai is one, are required to apply for authority (renewed annually) to open foreign currency accounts governing conversion for payment of dividends limited capital items such as direct investments, loans, and issuances of securities, some of which may be effected with governmental approval, while others require authorization. The ability of CCT Shanghai to remit funds to us may be limited by these restrictions. There can be no assurance that the relevant regulations in China will not be amended so as to adversely affect CCT Shanghai’s ability to remit funds to us. 18 Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Introduction of new laws or changes to existing laws by the Chinese government may adversely affect our business. Our business and operations in China and those of our operating subsidiary, and the Satellite Operating Entities’ business and operations in China are governed by the Chinese legal system, which is codified in written laws, regulations, circulars, administrative directives and internal guidelines. The Chinese government is in the process of developing its commercial legal system to meet the needs of foreign investors and encourage foreign investment. As the Chinese economy is developing and growing generally at a faster pace than its legal system, uncertainty exists regarding the application of existing laws and regulations to novel events or circumstances. Relevant Chinese laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their requirements, interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties and potential inconsistencies. In addition, Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and regulatory requirements. Uncertainties and inconsistencies in the requirements, interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements could materially and adversely affect our business and operations and could expose us to potential liabilities, including potential fines and other penalties, if it is determined that we have failed to comply with the requirements of such laws, regulations and legal requirements. Moreover, precedents of interpretation, implementation and enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations are limited, and Chinese court decisions are not binding on lower courts. Accordingly, the outcome of dispute resolutions may not be as consistent or predictable as in other more mercantilely advanced jurisdictions. It may be difficult to obtain timely and equitable enforcement of Chinese laws, or to obtain enforcement in China of a judgment by a foreign court or jurisdiction. Chinese law will govern CEC’s material operating agreements, some of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. There is no assurance that CEC will be able to enforce those material agreements or that remedies will be available outside China. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a substantial degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under our future agreements may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our business will be adversely affected if Chinese regulatory authorities view CEC’s and the Satellite Operating Entities’ corporate activities as not complying with applicable Chinese laws and regulations, including restrictions on foreign investments, change applicable laws and regulations, or impose additional requirements and conditions with which they are unable to comply. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in businesses engaged in telecommunications and education services, Internet access, education content and distribution of news and information, but permits foreign investment in businesses providing technical services in these areas. CCL and CCLX are licensed to provide value-added satellite broadband services, Internet services and Internet content in China. We have not sought confirmation from Chinese regulatory governmental authorities whether our structure and business arrangement with the Satellite Operating Entities comply with applicable Chinese laws and regulations, including regulation of value-added telecommunication business in China. Chinese legal advisers have opined that CEC’s performance under the technical services agreement with CCLX complies with applicable Chinese laws and regulations, and CEC complies with PRC laws and regulations to the extent that its services are technical services. However, they do not rule out the possibility that the PRC regulatory authorities will view CEC as not being in compliance with applicable PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to restrictions on foreign investments in the value-added telecommunication business. If: • Chinese authorities deem CEC’s corporate activities as violating applicable Chinese laws and regulations (including restrictions on foreign investments); • Chinese regulatory authorities change applicable laws and regulations or impose additional requirements and conditions with which CEC is unable to comply; or 19 • CEC is found to violate any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations; the relevant Chinese authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such a violation by levying fines, revoking business license(s), requiring us to restructure CEC’s ownership or operations, and requiring CEC’s and/or CCLX to discontinue some or all of their businesses. Any of these actions will adversely affect our business. We may be unable to enforce CEC’s agreements with the Satellite Operating Entities. Chinese law currently prohibits foreign investors from owning greater than 50% equity interests in companies engaged in telecommunication value-added businesses in the PRC. Although we have been advised by counsel that the pledge agreements between CEC and the Satellite Operating Entities are valid under PRC law, unless the equity interest restriction is amended or repealed, and subject to the approval of the relevant government authorities, CEC will only be entitled to enforce its right to take possession and ownership of up to a 50% interest in the Satellite Operating Entities in accordance with applicable PRC law and regulations. We are exposed to certain tax risks with respect to tax benefits enjoyed by certain of our subsidiaries in China under the new Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law. Our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in China are subject to tax in China. Historically, as foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, most of those subsidiaries enjoyed various tax holidays and other preferential tax treatments, which reduced their effective income tax rates to 15% or lower. The EIT Law, which took effect on January 1, 2008, has applied a uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate to all “resident enterprises” in China, including FIEs. Moreover, the EIT Law applies to enterprises established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” located in China. Under the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. While we do not believe we are a “resident enterprise,” because ambiguities exist with the interpretation and application of the EIT Law and the implementation regulations, we may be considered a PRC resident enterprise and therefore may be subject to the China enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on certain of our income. Our success depends on stable political, economic and social environments, which are subject to disruption in the PRC. Economic conditions in China are subject to uncertainties that may arise from changes in government policies and social conditions. Since 1978, the Chinese government has promulgated various reforms of its economic systems, resulting in economic growth over the last three decades. However, many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and expected to be refined and modified from time to time. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to changes, which may have a material impact on our operations and our financial performance. For instance, less governmental emphasis on education and distance learning services or on retraining out-of-work persons in the Chinese work force would harm our business, prospects, results and financial condition. Because our executive officers and directors reside outside of the U.S., it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce U.S. court judgments against them in the PRC. Our executive officers and directors reside outside of the U.S. and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the U.S. It may therefore be difficult for you to enforce your legal rights, to effect service of process upon our officers and directors or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and executive officer under U.S. federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the U.S. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the U.S. and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the U.S. federal securities laws. 20 Weakened political relations between the U.S. and China could make us less attractive. The relationship between the United States and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations, and its future business plans and profitability. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to the market-oriented economies of OECD member countries. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it functions and produces according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. In certain aspects, the PRC’s economy has been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. However, there can be no assurance of the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have. The PRC economy also differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an international group of member countries sharing a commitment to democratic government and market economy. For instance: • the number and importance of state-owned enterprises in the PRC is greater than in most OECD countries; • the level of capital reinvestment is lower in the PRC than in most OECD countries; and • Chinese policies make it more difficult for foreign firms to obtain local currency in China than in OECD jurisdictions. As a result of these differences, our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to those of OECD member countries. The Chinese economic slow-down may negatively impact our operating results. The Chinese economy has recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. A number of factors have contributed to this slow-down, including appreciation of the RMB, which has adversely affected China’s exports. In addition, the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much adverse impact it will have on the global economy in general or the Chinese economy in particular. Slowing economic growth in China could result in slowing growth for China’s education market and might have adverse effects on the demand for our services and therefore reduce our revenues The economy of China had been experiencing unprecedented growth before 2008, which could be curtailed if the government tries to control inflation by traditional means of monetary policy or its return to planned-economy policies, any of which would have an adverse effect on the combined company. The rapid growth of the Chinese economy before 2008 had led to higher levels of inflation. Government attempts to control inflation may adversely affect the business climate and growth of private enterprise, and the demand for higher education and e-Learning, in China. In addition, our profitability may be adversely affected if prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in its costs and expenses. We are required to deduct Chinese corporate withholding taxes from dividend we may pay to our stockholders. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress (NPC), approved and promulgated the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “New EIT Law”). This New EIT Law has taken effect on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, FIEs and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. 21 On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued a Notice on Implementing Transitional Measures for Enterprise Income Tax (the “Notice”), providing that the enterprises that have been approved to enjoy a low tax rate prior to the promulgation of the New EIT Law will be eligible for a five-year transition period starting January 1, 2008, during which time the tax rate will be increased step by step to the 25% unified tax rate set out in the New EIT Law. From January 1, 2008, for the enterprises whose applicable tax rate was 15% before the promulgation of the New EIT Law, the tax rate was increased to 18% for year 2008 and 20% for year 2009, and will be increased to 22% for year 2010, 24% for year 2011, 25% for year 2012. For the enterprises whose applicable tax rate was 24%, the tax rate was changed to 25% from January 1, 2008. As a result, all of our subsidiaries operating in China will be required to deduct Chinese withholding taxes from dividends distributed to us as the parent entity, meaning we would have less funds to use in connection with our operations as the parent entity or for distribution to our stockholders. Under the New EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and is subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its global income. The Implementation Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those invested in by PRC individuals, like our company, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or controlled by or invested in by PRC individuals. We do not believe our foreign subsidiaries should be considered as a resident enterprise. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the New EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, it is uncertain whether, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders would be subject to any PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC corporate shareholders, your investment in our common shares may be materially and adversely affected. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. In October 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, promulgated Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 75, that states that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to directly establish or indirectly control offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under this regulation, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. We have requested our shareholders who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under Circular 75 and other related rules. We attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that our shareholders who are subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 or other related rules. Any future failure by any of our shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from this offering to the Satellite Operating Entities, which may adversely affect the business expansion of the Satellite Operating Entities, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from this offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign- invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from this offering, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from this offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. 22 We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007, which both have taken effect on February 1, 2007. Under these regulations, all foreign exchange matters involved in an employee stock holding plan, stock option plan or similar plan in which PRC citizens participate require approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to complete certain other procedures and transactional foreign exchange matters upon the examination by, and approval of, SAFE. We and our employees who are PRC citizens who have been granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If the relevant PRC regulatory authority determines that our PRC employees who hold such options, restricted share units or restricted shares or their PRC employer fail to comply with these regulations, such employees and their PRC employer may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 