Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock Some of our license agreements have fixed expiration dates and will need to be renewed or replaced. If we are unable to renew or relicense these license agreements on terms favorable to us, our results of operations could be harmed. Some of our license agreements have fixed expiration dates. We need to renew or replace these agreements prior to their expiration in order to maintain our current revenue base. For example, license agreements with three major memory licensees are scheduled to expire in May 2012. We received notice of renewal from two of the licensees in November 2011, but the third licensee did not exercise its renewal option. We may not be able to continue licensing customers on terms favorable to us, under the existing terms or at all, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, other licensees may not elect to renew their licenses when their respective license agreements expire. We have expanded our licensable technology portfolio through internal development 6 Table of Contents and patents purchased from third parties, but there is no guarantee that these measures will lead to continued royalties. If we fail to continue to do business with our current licensees, our business would be materially adversely affected. We are currently involved in litigation and administrative proceedings involving some of our key patents; any invalidation or limitation of the scope of our key patents could significantly harm our business. As more fully described under the subheading “Contingencies” in Note 14—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are currently involved in litigation involving some of our patents. The parties in these legal actions have challenged the validity, scope, enforceability and ownership of our patents. In addition, reexamination requests have been filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) with respect to patent claims at issue in one or more of our litigation proceedings, and oppositions have been filed against us with respect to our patents in the European Patent Office. Under a reexamination proceeding and upon completion of the proceeding, the PTO may leave a patent in its present form, narrow the scope of the patent or cancel some or all of the claims of the patent. The PTO issued several Official Actions rejecting or maintaining earlier rejections of many of the claims in some of our patents. We are currently asserting these patents and patent claims in litigation and administrative proceedings. If the PTO’s adverse rulings are upheld on appeal and some or all of the claims of the patents that are subject to reexamination are canceled, our business may be significantly harmed. In addition, counterparties to our litigation and administrative proceedings may seek and obtain orders to stay these proceedings based on rejections of claims in the PTO reexaminations, and other courts or tribunals reviewing our legal actions could make findings adverse to our interests, even if the PTO actions are not final. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings or the myriad procedural and substantive motions in these proceedings. If there is an adverse ruling in any legal or administrative proceeding relating to the infringement, validity, enforceability or ownership of any of our patents, or if a court or an administrative body such as the PTO limits the scope of the claims of any of our patents, we could be prevented from enforcing or earning future revenues from those patents, and the likelihood that customers will take new licenses and that current licensees will continue to agree to pay under their existing licenses could be significantly reduced. The resulting reduction in license fees and royalties could significantly harm our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows, or the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal and administrative proceedings may result in substantial legal expenses and diverts our management’s time and attention away from our other business operations, which could significantly harm our business. Our enforcement proceedings historically have been protracted and complex. The time to resolution and complexity of our litigations, their disproportionate importance to our business compared to other companies, the propensity for delay in patent litigations, and the potential that we may lose particular motions as well as the overall litigations all could cause significant volatility in our stock price and materially adversely affect our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to continue to be involved in material legal proceedings in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, including material litigation with existing licensees or strategic partners, which could harm either of our business segments, or both. In the past, we have litigated to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to enforce the terms of our license agreements, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others and to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Our current legal actions, as described under the subheading “Contingencies” in Note 14—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, are examples of disputes and litigation that impact our business. We expect to be involved in similar legal proceedings in the future, including proceedings to ensure proper and full payment of royalties by licensees under the terms of their license agreements. 7 Table of Contents These existing and any future legal actions may harm either or both of our business segments, and may hinder our ability to independently optimize each of them. For example, they could cause an existing licensee or strategic partner to cease making royalty or other payments to us, or to challenge the validity and enforceability of our patents or the scope of our license agreements, and could significantly damage our relationship with such licensee or strategic partner and, as a result, prevent the adoption of our other Intellectual Property or DigitalOptics technologies by such licensee or strategic partner. Litigation could also severely disrupt or shut down the business operations of our licensees or strategic partners, which in turn would significantly harm our ongoing relations with them and cause us to lose royalty revenues. From time to time we identify products that we believe to infringe our patents. We seek to license the manufacturer of those products but on occasion the manufacturer is unwilling to enter into a license agreement and then we enforce our patent rights against those products. Litigation stemming from these or other disputes could also harm our relationships with other licensees or our ability to gain new customers, who may postpone licensing decisions pending the outcome of the litigation or dispute, or who may, as a result of such litigation, choose not to adopt our technologies. In addition, these legal proceedings could be very expensive and may reduce or eliminate our profits. The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable and not completely within our control. These costs may be materially higher than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results and lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. Whether or not determined in our favor or ultimately settled, litigation diverts our managerial, technical, legal and financial resources from our business operations. Furthermore, an adverse decision in any of these legal actions could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others, limit the value of our licensed technology or otherwise negatively impact our stock price or our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Even if we prevail in our legal actions, significant contingencies will exist to their settlement and final resolution, including the scope of the liability of each party, our ability to enforce judgments against the parties, the ability and willingness of the parties to make any payments owed or agreed upon and the dismissal of the legal action by the relevant court, none of which are completely within our control. Parties that may be obligated to pay us royalties could also decide to alter their business activities or corporate structure, which could affect our ability to collect royalties from such parties. Volume pricing incentives in our licenses with two DRAM manufacturers may slow our DRAM royalty growth. In 2005, Tessera, Inc. provided two major dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”) manufacturers with first-mover pricing advantages with respect to royalties due to Tessera, Inc. under their respective licenses based on several factors, including volumes. The effect of the volume pricing adjustments may cause, at certain shipment volumes and for these two DRAM manufacturers only, Tessera, Inc.’s aggregate annual DRAM royalty revenues to grow less rapidly than annual growth in overall unit shipments in the DRAM end market. An additional effect may include some quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in growth in Tessera, Inc.’s revenues from the DRAM end market, depending on the relative DRAM market share enjoyed by these two DRAM manufacturers as well as the timing of when they reach the volume pricing incentive in a given calendar quarter and their royalty payments within a calendar year. If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights and our confidential information, our business will suffer. We rely primarily on a combination of license, development and nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our technology and intellectual property. If we fail to protect our technology and intellectual property, our licensees and others may 8 Table of Contents seek to use our technology and intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. The growth of our business depends in large part on our ability to obtain intellectual property rights in a timely manner, our ability to convince third parties of the applicability of our intellectual property rights to their products, and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights against them. In certain instances, we attempt to obtain patent protection for portions of our technology, and our license agreements typically include both issued patents and pending patent applications. If we fail to obtain patents in a timely manner or if the patents issued to us do not cover all of the inventions disclosed in our patent applications, others could use portions of our technology and intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties. For example, our business may suffer if we are unable to obtain patent protection in a timely manner from the PTO due to processing delays resulting from examiner turnover and a continuing backlog of patent applications. We also rely on trade secret laws rather than patent laws to protect other portions of our proprietary technology. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. The misappropriation of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could seriously harm our business. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and customers. We cannot be certain that these contracts have not been and will not be breached, that we will be able to timely detect unauthorized use or transfer of our technology and intellectual property, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If we fail to use these mechanisms to protect our technology and intellectual property, or if a court fails to enforce our intellectual property rights, our business will suffer. We cannot be certain that these protection mechanisms can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated or challenged. Further, the laws and enforcement regimes of certain countries do not protect our technology and intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement regimes of the U.S. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our technology and intellectual property adequately against unauthorized use, which could adversely affect our business. Our business may suffer if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. Third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and will divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, third parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could block our ability to further develop or commercialize some or all of our products or services in the U.S. and abroad. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards. Even if we have an agreement that provides for a third party to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to perform its contractual obligations under the agreement. If we cannot or do not license the infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could suffer. Recent changes to U.S. patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may adversely impact our business. Our business relies in part on the uniform and historically consistent application of U.S. patent laws and regulations. There are numerous recent changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the PTO, which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, on September 16, 2011, President Obama signed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act which codifies significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a “first to invent” to a “first inventor to file” system, limiting where a patentee may file a patent suit, requiring the 9 Table of Contents apportionment of patent damages, replacing interference proceedings with derivation actions and creating a post-grant opposition process to challenge patents after they have been issued. The effects of these changes on our patent portfolio and business have yet to be determined, as the PTO must still implement regulations relating to these changes and the courts have yet to address the new provisions. In addition, in recent years, the courts have interpreted U.S. patent laws and regulations differently, and in particular the U.S. Supreme Court has decided a number of patent cases and continues to actively review more patent cases than it has in the past. Some of these changes or potential changes may not be advantageous for us, and may make it more difficult to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our patents against parties using them without a license or payment of royalties. These changes or potential changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our patent rights, and could have a deleterious effect on our licensing program and, therefore, the royalties we can collect. Some of our license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, and we may not receive royalties after that time. Tessera, Inc.’s license agreement with Texas Instruments, Inc. automatically converts to a fully paid-up license on December 31, 2013, assuming that Texas Instruments complies with all terms and conditions of the license agreement up through its expiration. Tessera, Inc’s license agreements with Samsung Electronics Co, Ltd. and Hynix Semiconductor Inc. each convert to a fully paid-up license after the expiration of its extended term in 2017. We may not receive further royalties from licensees for any licensed technology under those agreements if they convert to fully paid-up licenses because such licensees will be entitled to continue using some, if not all, of Tessera, Inc.’s relevant intellectual property under the terms of the license agreements without further payment, even if relevant patents are still in effect. If we cannot find another source of revenue to replace the revenues from these license agreements converting to fully paid-up licenses, our results of operations following such conversion would be materially adversely affected. A significant amount of our royalty revenues comes from a few end markets and products, and our business could be harmed if demand for these market segments or products declines. A significant portion of our royalty revenues comes from the manufacture and sale of packaged semiconductor chips for digital signal processors, application-specific standard product semiconductors, application-specific integrated circuits and memory. In addition, we derive substantial revenues from the incorporation of our technology into mobile devices. If demand for semiconductors in any one or a combination of these market segments or products declines, our royalty revenues will be reduced significantly and our business would be harmed. Our revenues are concentrated in a few customers and if we lose any of these customers our revenues may decrease substantially. We earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, there were two customers that each accounted for 10% or more of total revenues. We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. If we lose any of these customers, our revenues may decrease substantially. Powertech Technology Inc. (“PTI”), one of these customers, has initiated litigation to terminate its license with Tessera, Inc. See “Contingencies” in Note 14—“Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If PTI elects to stop making payments or if we receive an adverse determination in that case, it would have a substantial adverse impact on our royalty revenue in the near term. We have a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. Our long-term success depends on future royalties paid to us by licensees. Royalty payments under our licenses are primarily based upon the number of electrical connections to the semiconductor chip in a package 10 Table of Contents covered by our licensed technology. We also have royalty arrangements in which royalties are paid based on a percent of net sales, a per package, or a per unit sold basis. We are dependent upon our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties, as well as upon our licensees’ compliance with their agreements. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: • the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers and assemblers; • the extent to which large equipment vendors and material providers develop and supply tools and materials to enable manufacturing using our packaging technology; • the demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; • the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology; • the impact of economic downturns; and • the timing of receipt of royalty reports may not meet our revenue recognition criteria resulting in fluctuation in our results of operations. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenues. The terms of our license agreements generally require our licensees to document their use of our technology and report related data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our license terms generally give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, and may not be cost justified based on our understanding of our licensees’ businesses. Our license compliance program audits certain licensees to review the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty revenues to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that such audits will be effective to that end. The markets for semiconductors and related products and camera modules are highly concentrated, and we may have limited opportunities to license our technologies or sell our products. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated in that a small number of semiconductor designers and manufacturers account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor products generally, including our products and products incorporating our technologies. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry may increase this concentration. Accordingly, we expect that licenses of our technologies and sales of our products will be concentrated with a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. As we acquire new technologies and integrate them into our product line, we will need to establish new relationships to sell these products. Our financial results depend in significant part on our success in establishing and maintaining relationships with, and effecting substantial sales to, these customers. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining such relationships, our financial results will be dependent in large part on these customers’ sales and business results. This is also true for the camera module market which is the target market for our imaging and optics business. In this market, a small number of original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) account for a substantial portion of purchases of camera-enabled cell phones and other mobile devices. We have been promoting the adoption of our technologies in this market through the supply chain infrastructure by signing licenses with the sensor, lens and camera manufacturers and assemblers. Consolidation of the OEMs may affect our licensees’ ability to maintain or establish relationships with these OEMs through which they sell products incorporating our imaging and optics technologies. As a result, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The current DRAM market conditions are challenging, and if such conditions do not improve, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Current conditions in the DRAM market are challenging. Prices for many DRAM chips are less than our licensees’ or potential licensees’ variable costs of making that chip. The DRAM market has gone through many cycles of unprofitability, resulting in the bankruptcy, consolidation or discontinuation of DRAM production by many semiconductor companies. We are unable to predict the effect of the current market conditions on our licensees or potential licensees. The poor profitability, bankruptcy, consolidation or discontinuation of DRAM production by any of these companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve technological feasibility or profitability or that may limit our revenue growth. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing of new technologies, products and services, including MEMS-based auto-focus technologies, EDoF, OptiML Zoom and other image quality enhancement technologies, and thermal management technology (also referred to as silent air cooling). Investments in new technologies are speculative and technological feasibility may not be achieved. Commercial success depends on many factors including innovativeness and demand for the technology, availability of materials and equipment, selling price the market is willing to bear, competition and effective licensing or product sales. We may not achieve significant revenues from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new technologies, products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically or originally anticipated. Competing technologies may harm our business. We expect that our technologies will continue to compete with technologies of internal design groups at semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, electronic component and system manufacturers, image sensor and lens manufacturers and camera module companies such as Omnivision Technologies, Inc., Aptina Imaging Corporation, STMicroelectronics, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co, Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation. The internal design groups of these companies create their own packaging, imaging and optics solutions. If these internal design groups design around our patents or introduce unique solutions superior to our technology, they may not need to license our technology. These groups may design technology that is less expensive to implement or that enables products with higher performance or additional features. Many of these groups have substantially greater resources, greater financial strength and lower cost structures which may allow them to undercut our price. They also have the inherent advantage of access to internal corporate strategies, technology roadmaps and technical information. As a result, they may be able to bring alternative solutions to market more easily and quickly. For our imaging and optics technologies, our OptiML Focus technology enables camera modules to automatically focus without any moving parts by employing extended depth of field technology. Our MEMS-based auto-focus technology enables high-precision control of a moving lens for auto-focus functionality with a small form factor. These technologies compete with auto-focus technologies including traditional lens-motion-type auto-focus, emerging lens-modification-type auto-focus, solutions using voice coil motor technology, and also other computational-type auto-focus solutions and other solutions and technologies provided by companies such as DxO Labs. Our Micro-optics products such as the diffractive optical elements used in off-axis illumination for lithography, face competition from products offered by other Micro-optics manufacturers such as JenOptik A.G. as well as emerging technologies such as ASML’s FlexRay technology. Our wafer-level camera solution competes with both the traditional lens vendors who enjoy an established supply chain, as well as other wafer-level optics technologies offered by companies such as Heptagon Oy and Anteryon B.V. For the embedded image enhancement technologies such as Face Detection and our other Face Tools products, our offerings compete with other image processing software vendors such as ArcSoft, Inc. as well as internal design groups of our customers providing similar technologies by employing different approaches. We also expect to see other competing technologies emerge. 12 Table of Contents In the future, our licensed technologies may also compete with other technologies that emerge. These technologies may be less expensive and provide higher or additional performance. Companies with these competing technologies may also have greater resources. Technological change could render our technologies obsolete, and new, competitive technologies could emerge that achieve broad adoption and adversely affect the use of our technologies and intellectual property. If we do not create and implement new technologies or expand our licensable technology portfolio, our competitive position could be harmed and our operating results adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from licenses and royalties from a relatively small number of key technologies. We devote significant engineering resources to develop new technologies to address the evolving needs of the semiconductor and the consumer and communication electronics industries. To remain competitive, we must introduce new technologies in a timely manner and the market must adopt them. Developments in our technologies are inherently complex, and require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. We may not be able to develop and market new technologies in a timely or commercially acceptable fashion. Moreover, our patents will expire in the future. Our current U.S. issued patents expire at various times from 2012 through 2030. We need to develop or acquire successful innovations and obtain patents on those innovations before our current patents expire, and our failure to do so could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If we do not successfully further develop and commercialize the technologies we acquire, or cultivate strategic relationships that expand our licensable technology portfolio, our competitive position could be harmed and our operating results adversely affected. We also attempt to expand our licensable technology portfolio and technical expertise by acquiring and further developing new technologies or developing strategic relationships with others. These strategic relationships may include the right for us to sublicense technology and intellectual property to others. However, we may not be able to acquire or obtain rights to licensable technology and intellectual property in a timely manner or upon commercially reasonable terms. Even if we do acquire such rights, some of the technologies we invest in may be commercially unproven and may not be adopted or accepted by the industry. Moreover, our research and development efforts, and acquisitions and strategic relationships, may be futile if we do not accurately predict the future needs of the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics, and consumer imaging industries. Our failure to acquire new technologies that are commercially viable in the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics, and consumer imaging industries could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The way we integrate internally developed and acquired technologies into our products and licensing programs may not be accepted by customers. We have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, considerable time and resources to developing, acquiring and integrating new and existing technologies into our products and licensing programs. However, if customers do not accept the way we have integrated our technologies, they may adopt competing solutions. In addition, as we introduce new products or licensing programs, we cannot predict with certainty if and when our customers will transition to those new products or licensing programs. If customers fail to accept new or upgraded products or licensing programs incorporating our technologies, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Failure by our licensees to sell products using our technology could limit our royalty revenue growth. Because we expect a portion of our future revenues to be derived from licenses and royalties from semiconductors that use our licensed technology, our future success depends upon our licensees developing and 13 Table of Contents selling commercially successful products. Any of the following factors could limit our licensees’ ability to sell products that incorporate our technology: • the willingness and ability of materials and equipment suppliers to produce materials and equipment that support our licensed technology, in a quantity sufficient to enable volume manufacturing; • the ability of our licensees to purchase such materials and equipment on a cost-effective and timely basis; • the willingness of our licensees and others to make investments in the manufacturing process that supports our licensed technology, and the amount and timing of those investments; and • our licensees’ ability to design and assemble packages incorporating our technology that are acceptable to their customers. As part of our DigitalOptics business, we currently derive revenues from licenses to and royalties from our imaging and optics technologies in consumer electronics, such as mobile phones, digital still cameras, wireless devices, personal computers and other consumer electronics. Our future success depends upon transitioning our image enhancement solutions into the mobile imaging market through delivering revolutionary MEMS actuators and becoming a vertically integrated camera module supplier. Any of the following factors could limit the growth of our imaging and optics technology: • our ability to innovate and provide solutions at lower costs, with improved performance, or with more enhanced features than our competitors; • the relevant markets’ rate of adoption of our imaging and optics technologies; • our ability to build a robust supply chain to support product ramp plans; and • our competitors who may have superior products or solutions which take away market shares or design wins from us. Failure by the semiconductor industry to adopt our packaging technology for the next generation high performance DRAM chips would significantly harm our business. To date, our packaging technology has been used by several companies for high performance DRAM chips. For example, packaging using our technology is used for DDR2 and DDR3 DRAM and we currently have licensees, including Hynix Semiconductor Inc., Micron Technology, Inc., and Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd., who are paying royalties for DRAM chips in advanced packages. DRAM manufacturers are also currently developing next generation high performance DRAM chips, including next generation of DDR referred to as DDR4, to meet increasing speed and performance requirements of electronic products. We believe that these next-generation, high performance DRAM chips will require advanced packaging technologies such as CSP. We anticipate that royalties from shipments of these next-generation, high performance DRAM chips packaged using our technology may account for a significant percentage of our future revenues. If semiconductor manufacturers do not continue to use packages employing our technology for the next generation of high performance DRAM and find a viable alternative packaging technology for use with next generation high performance DRAM chips, or if we do not receive royalties from next generation, high performance DRAM chips that use our technology, our future revenues could be adversely affected. Our technology may be too expensive for certain next generation high performance DRAM manufacturers, which could significantly reduce the adoption rate of our packaging technology in next generation high performance DRAM chips. Even if our package technology is selected for at least some of these next generation high performance DRAM chips, there could be delays in the introduction of products utilizing these chips that 14 Table of Contents could materially affect the amount and timing of any royalty payments that we receive. Other factors that could affect adoption of our technology for next generation high performance DRAM products include delays or shortages of materials and equipment and the availability of testing services. If our licensees delay or are unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties, or shift their licensed products to other companies to lower their royalties to us, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. A number of companies in the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries are facing severe financial difficulties. As a result, there have been recent bankruptcies and restructuring of companies in these industries. Our licensees may face similar financial difficulties which may result in their inability to make payments to us in a timely manner or if at all. In addition, our licensees may merge with or may shift the manufacture of licensed products to companies that are not currently licensees to us. This could make the collection process complex and difficult which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a larger portion of our revenues is generated from product sales, we may rely on outsourced high volume manufacturing, which is inherently risky. As we integrate internally developed technologies into products, we may rely on outsourced high volume manufacturing by utilizing third party foundry, packaging, assembly and test capabilities. Doing so could present risks to our operations, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules, yields, capacity and quality assurance; • limited number of vendors capable of manufacturing our high technology products; • limited availability of vendor capacity for our products which may delay time to market; • failure of vendors to meet our technical requirements; • difficulty in determining target inventory levels based on forecasted demand, which may not be reliable; • infringement or misappropriation of other third parties’ or our intellectual property; • limited warranties on products and services supplied to us; and • overhead costs of developing and maintaining a global supply chain. If any vendor in the supply chain materially fails to perform, or if we are required to find an alternate vendor and are not able to do so on a timely basis, or if these vendors materially increase their prices, our business strategy could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our services business, including customization services, may subject us to specific costs and risks that we may fail to manage adequately and could harm our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from engineering and design services. Among the engineering services that we offer are customized package design and prototyping, modeling, simulation, failure analysis and reliability testing and related training services. We also offer our customers design services to customize our technologies to incorporate into their products and production processes, enabling our customers to shorten the development effort and time to market. A number of factors, including, among others, the perceived value of our intellectual property portfolio, our ability to convince customers of the value of our engineering services and our reputation for performance under our service contracts, could cause our revenues from engineering services to decline, damage our reputation, and harm our ability to attract future customers, which would in turn harm our operating results. 15 Table of Contents Under certain contracts, we are required to perform certain services, in some cases including design services for lens, register transfer level, high performance optical and optical components and tooling services. If we fail to deliver as required under these contracts, we could lose revenues and become subject to liability for breach of contract. We also provide certain services at or below cost in an effort to increase the speed and breadth with which our customers adopt our technologies. For example, we provide modeling, manufacturing process training, equipment and materials characterization and other services to assist customers in designing, implementing, upgrading and maintaining their assembly lines. We frequently provide these services as a form of training to introduce new customers to our technology and existing customers to new technologies, with the aim that these services will generate revenues in the future. Our failure to manage these services adequately may harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our DigitalOptics solutions rely on the use of certain materials from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. The lack of availability of these materials could delay the execution of our business strategy and adversely affect our revenues. We rely on the use of certain materials available from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for the manufacturing of our small form factor micro-optics. If any or some of these materials become unavailable, or, if any of these suppliers cease operations and we cannot find an alternative source, our development efforts could be delayed and our revenues from our DigitalOptics business could be adversely affected. Our licensing cycle is lengthy and costly, and our marketing, legal and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. We generally incur significant marketing, legal and sales expenses prior to entering into our license agreements, generating a license fee and establishing a royalty stream from each licensee. The length of time it takes to establish a new licensing relationship can range from six to 18 months or longer for an Intellectual Property license and 18 to 24 months or longer for a DigitalOptics license. As such, we may incur significant losses in any particular period before any associated revenue stream begins. Tessera Intellectual Property Corp. incurs significant reverse engineering expenditures on products of potential licensee in order to prepare sales and marketing collateral. We employ intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate licensees, potential licensees and original equipment manufacturers about the benefits of our technologies. In addition, even if these companies adopt our technologies, they must devote significant resources to integrate fully our technologies into their operations. If our marketing and sales efforts are unsuccessful, then we will not be able to achieve widespread acceptance of our technology. In addition, ongoing litigation could impact our ability to gain new licensees which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our financial and operating results may vary, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We currently provide guidance on revenues and expenses on a quarterly basis. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly or annual comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate during any period or that could adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives include those listed in this “Risk Factors” section of this report and the following: • the timing of and compliance with license or service agreements and the terms and conditions for payment to us of license or service fees under these agreements; • fluctuations in our royalties caused by pricing advantages provided to two DRAM manufacturers; • changes in our royalties caused by changes in demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; 16 Table of Contents • decrease in our revenues caused by price erosion on high performance camera modules incorporating our DigitalOptics technologies; • the amount of our product and service revenues; • the timing of obtaining design wins and manufacturing plan for our MEMS solutions; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • delays in our introduction of new technologies or market acceptance of these new technologies through new license agreements; • our ability to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or the terms of our agreements; • legal proceedings affecting our patents, patent applications or license agreements; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing technologies; • changes in demand for semiconductor chips in the specific end markets in which we concentrate; • changes in demand for semiconductor capital equipment, digital still cameras and other camera-enabled devices including cell phones, security systems and personal computers; • the timing of the conclusion of license agreements; • the time it takes to establish new licensing arrangements could be lengthy; • the timing of meeting the requirements for revenue recognition under accounting principles; • changes in accounting principles; and • cyclical fluctuations in semiconductor markets generally. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, reports from market and security analysts, litigation-related developments, and other factors, the price at which our common stock will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In future periods, if our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2011, we held approximately $55.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $436.6 million in short-term investments. These investments include various financial securities such as municipal bonds and notes, corporate bonds and notes, commercial paper, treasury and agency notes and bills, and money market funds. The weakened financial markets, originally caused by the sub-prime mortgage crisis in the U.S., has at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Additionally, changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee and recent concerns about the rising U.S. government debt level may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 17 Table of Contents The economic downturn and weakened financial markets could negatively affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Slow economic activity, high unemployment, concerns about inflation and energy costs, decreased business and consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns have contributed to and continue to contribute to a challenging economic environment. This environment makes it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and has caused businesses to slow spending on our products and services. Our major licensees have experienced reductions in semiconductor sales which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the constraints in the capital and credit markets may limit the ability of our customers to timely borrow and access the capital and credit markets to meet their liquidity needs, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us and reduce their demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations or cash flows. We operate in a highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declining economic conditions, maturing product and technology cycles, and excess inventories. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends heavily upon the volume of production by our licensees, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors. Similarly, our product revenues rely at least in part upon the demand of the semiconductor equipment market. Semiconductor manufacturers and package assembly companies generally sharply curtail their spending during industry downturns, such as in the current global economic downturn, and historically have lowered their spending more than the decline in their revenues. As a result, the impact of the current global economic downturn on our businesses is exacerbated by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. If we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower revenues from our licensees and service customers in the current or any future economic downturn, our operating results may suffer and we may experience operating losses. Changes in financial accounting or existing taxation standards, rules, practices or interpretation may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations which may impact our reported results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretations by the SEC and various accounting bodies. In addition, we are subject to various taxation rules in many jurisdictions. The existing taxation rules are generally complex, frequently changing and often ambiguous. Changes to existing taxation rules, changes to the financial accounting standards such as the proposed convergence to international financial reporting standards, or any changes to the interpretations of these standards or rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Recent accounting pronouncements and their estimated potential impact on our business are addressed in Note 3—“Recent Accounting Pronouncements” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks that may have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow, and we may have difficulty protecting our intellectual property in some foreign countries. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from licensees headquartered outside of the U.S. We have also expanded our operations outside of the U.S. such as research and development facilities in Israel, Ireland and 18 Table of Contents Romania to design, develop, test or market certain technologies. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: • fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as our revenues are denominated principally in U.S. dollars and a portion of our costs are based in non U.S. dollars; • security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest; • changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • withholding tax obligations on license revenues that we may not be able to offset fully against our U.S. tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may re-characterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; • differing employment practices, labor issues and business and cultural factors; • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the U.S. or other developed countries; and • limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers. Our intellectual property is also used in a large number of foreign countries. There are many countries in which we currently have no issued patents. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater problem for us as our licensees increase their manufacturing and sales in countries which provide less protection for intellectual property. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business or if we undertake any restructuring activities or if we dispose of a business division or dispose of or discontinue any product lines. We plan to continue the expansion of our operations, domestically and internationally, and may continue to do so through both internal growth and acquisitions. This expansion may strain our systems and management, operational and financial controls and resources. In addition, we are likely to incur higher operating costs. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our management, systems and financial controls. We also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. We cannot ensure that we will be able to timely and effectively meet demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth or we are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. From time to time, we may undertake to restructure our business, including the disposition of a business division, or the disposition or discontinuance of a product line. For example, in April 2011, we announced that we are exploring a possible separation of our DigitalOptics business and, in August 2011, we announced closure of our development facility located in Yokohama, Japan. There are several factors that could cause a restructuring, a disposition or a discontinuance to have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These include potential disruption of our operations and our information technology systems, the timing of development of our technology, the deliveries of products or services to our customers and other aspects of our business. In addition, such actions may increase the risk of claims or threats of lawsuits by our customers. In the case of a disposition of a product line, there may be a risk of not identifying 19 Table of Contents a purchaser, or, if identified, the purchase price may be less than the net asset book value for the product line. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and we may lose employees whom we want to keep. Any restructuring, disposition or discontinuance would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. There are no assurances that the restructuring, disposal or discontinuance will reduce our operating expenses. We may also incur other significant liabilities and costs including employee severance costs, relocation expenses, and impairment of lease obligations and long-lived assets. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. We may be unable to identify or complete a favorable transaction with respect to the DigitalOptics business. Although as previously announced we are exploring a possible separation of our DigitalOptics business, we have not set a definitive timetable for completing our exploration of strategic alternatives for that business, and there can be no assurance that the process will result in the identification or selection of a transaction, that any transaction that is identified or selected will be completed, or that a completed transaction will be favorable to us and our stockholders. There are numerous hurdles to such a transaction, including the ongoing operating losses of the DigtialOptics business, which make it uncertain whether such business could be operated as a stand-alone company or would attract interest from any potential buyer. Disputes regarding our intellectual property may require us to indemnify certain licensees, the cost of which could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. While we generally do not indemnify our licensees, some of our license agreements in our DigitalOptics business provide limited indemnities for certain actions brought by third parties against our licensees, and some require us to provide technical support and information to a licensee that is involved in litigation for using our technology. We expect to agree to provide similar indemnity or support obligations to future licensees. Our indemnity and support obligations could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to indemnify or supply such support to our licensees, a licensee’s development, marketing and sales of licensed imaging and optics products could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could have a material adverse affect on our business operations, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We could experience losses due to product liability claims which could result in substantial costs to us. We sell products and provide services that may subject us to product liability claims in the future. Although we carry liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate, product liability claims can be costly and any future product liability claim made against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies, be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a product liability loss is covered by our insurance policies, such policies contain substantial retentions and deductibles that we would be required to pay. Our existing insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that presently in effect, or at all. The payment of retentions or deductibles for a significant amount of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flow. If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, legal and finance personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. None of our senior management, key technical personnel or key sales personnel are bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key 20 Table of Contents person life insurance covering our key personnel. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Moreover, some of the individuals on our management team have been in their current positions for a relatively short period of time. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. Competition for qualified senior employees can be intense. For example, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our growth and expansion. Further, we must train our new personnel, especially our technical support personnel, to respond to and support our licensees and customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our licensees or customers, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business. Changes to our enterprise resource planning and other key software applications could cause unexpected problems to occur and disrupt the management of our business. As our business grows and becomes more complex, it may become necessary to expand and upgrade our enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”), and other management information systems which are critical to the operational, accounting and financial functions of our company. Significant management attention and resources would be used and extensive planning would be required to support effective implementation of a new ERP and other such systems. In addition, such implementation may carry certain risks, including the risk of significant design errors, and unexpected difficulties may arise that could materially and adversely affect the accuracy and timely reporting of our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. Our business operations could suffer in the event of information technology systems’ failures or security breaches. Despite system redundancy and the implementation of security measures within our internal and external information technology and networking systems, our information technology systems may be subject to security breaches, damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, terrorism, and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or security breach could cause interruptions in our operations in addition to the possibility of losing proprietary information and trade secrets. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. Since the adoption of the authoritative guidance on share-based payment, we have recorded increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. Difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans or changes to the plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant stock-based compensation to employees in the future. As a result, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could harm our business. We use hazardous substances in the manufacturing and testing of prototype products and in the development of our technologies in our research and development laboratories. We are subject to a variety of local, state, 21 Table of Contents federal and foreign governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances. Our past, present or future failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, and alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other substantial expenses. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liabilities under certain statutes. The imposition of such liabilities could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have business operations located globally in places that are subject to natural disasters. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our locations may be subject to earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters. Should a hurricane, earthquake or other catastrophe, such a fire, flood, tsunami, power loss, communication failure or similar event disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could conduct our business. Some of our offices are located in states or countries where the local governments may be in financial crisis which may interrupt our business operations and adversely impact our results of operations. We operate our business in many jurisdictions worldwide. Our corporate headquarters are located in the state of California which is facing significant budgetary challenges and large operating deficits. As a result, the state has stopped certain improvement projects and disrupted certain services to its residents, and the new Governor has proposed significant spending cuts and revenue increases to cover the funding shortfall. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if the state proposes additional taxation or other measures to increase its revenue through tax levies on corporations like us or on its residents, including some of our employees. In addition, we have operations in various countries, including Ireland and Romania, which may be facing financial distress. For example, the government of Ireland has announced an austerity budget and agreed to a borrowing package from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union in an attempt to cut its budget deficit. If the governments of the states or countries where we have business operations cannot provide public services, impose additional tax regulations or levies, or increase their tax examination activities, our business operations may be interrupted and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We have made and may continue to make or to pursue acquisitions which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, or be difficult to integrate, which may adversely affect our financial results. We have made several acquisitions, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire companies, patent portfolios and technologies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Investigating businesses, patent portfolios or technologies and integrating newly acquired businesses, patent portfolios or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such activities divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, impairment charges related to goodwill and possible impairment charges related to other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Our plans to integrate and expand upon research and development programs and technologies initiated at each of our operating locations, including image sensor packaging, wafer-level optics and camera technology from our operation in Charlotte, North Carolina, image enhancement technology for digital auto-focus and zoom from our operation in Tel Aviv, Israel, MEMS-based Auto-focus and Auto-focus + Shutter solutions from our operation in Arcadia, California, and in-camera image capture for digital photos from our operations in Galway, 22 Table of Contents Ireland, and system integration from our operation in San Jose, California, may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market. The market may adopt competitive solutions to our products or technologies. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. There are numerous risks associated with our acquisitions of businesses, technologies and patents. We have made a number of acquisitions of businesses, technologies and patents in the recent years. These acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: • These acquisitions could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. As a result, these acquisitions could result in a reduction of net income per share as compared to the net income per share we would have achieved if these acquisitions had not occurred. • The purchase price for each acquisition is determined based on significant judgment on factors such as projected value, quality and availability of the business, technology or patent. In addition, if other companies have similar interests in the same business, technology or patent, our ability to negotiate these acquisitions at favorable terms may be limited and the purchase price may be artificially inflated. • Following completion of these acquisitions, we may uncover additional liabilities, patent validity, infringement or enforcement issues or unforeseen expenses not discovered during our diligence process. Any such additional liabilities, patent validity, infringement or enforcement issues or expenses could result in significant unanticipated costs not originally estimated, such as impairment charges of acquired assets and goodwill, and may harm our financial results. For example, during 2011 we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $49.7 million, mainly due to a significant decline in our market capitalization for an extended period of time. • The integration of technologies, patent portfolios and personnel, if any, will be a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customer relations could be damaged. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from any of these acquisitions. • We have incurred substantial direct transaction costs as a result of these acquisitions and anticipate incurring substantial additional costs to support the integration of these businesses and technologies. The total cost of the integration may exceed our expectations. • Sales by the acquired businesses may be subject to different accounting treatment than our existing businesses, especially related to the recognition of revenues. This may lead to potential deferral of revenues due to new multiple-element revenue arrangements. • There is a significant time lag between acquiring a patent portfolio and recognizing revenue from those patent assets. During that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred in preparing licensing and/or litigation campaigns that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. • We are required to estimate and record fair values of contingent assets, liabilities, deferred tax assets and liabilities at the time of an acquisition. Even though these estimates are based on management’s best effort, the actual results may differ. Under the current accounting guidance, differences between actual results and management’s estimate could cause our operating results to fluctuate or could adversely affect our results of operations. If our amortizable intangible assets (such as acquired patents) or equity investments become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. In addition to internal development, we intend to broaden our intellectual property portfolio through strategic relationships and acquisitions. We believe this will enhance the competitiveness and size of our current 23 Table of Contents businesses and diversify into markets and technologies that complement our current businesses. These acquisitions could be in the form of asset purchases, equity investments, or business combinations. As a result, we may have intangible assets which are amortized over their estimated useful lives, equity investments, in-process research and development, and goodwill. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to periodically review our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, such as patent portfolio, and equity investments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or equity investments may not be recoverable include a decline in future cash flows, fluctuations in market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or slower than anticipated adoption of our products by our customers. In 2011, we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $49.7 million due to a significant decline in our market capitalization for an extended period of time. As we continue to review for factors that may affect our business which may not be in our control, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our amortizable intangible assets or equity investments is determined, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial position or results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, new SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, have created uncertainty for companies. These laws, regulations and standards are often subject to varying interpretations. As a result, their application in practice may evolve as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result of our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, we have increased and may continue to increase general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, authorize the board to issue “blank check” preferred stock, prohibit stockholder action by written consent, eliminate the right of stockholders to call special meetings, limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors, and establish advance notice procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 