Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues are concentrated in a few customers and if we lose any of these customers our revenues could decrease substantially. We earn a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, there were three, two and two customers, respectively, that each accounted for 10% or more of total revenues. We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. If we lose any of these customers, our revenues could decrease substantially. Powertech Technology Inc. (“PTI”), one of our customers that accounted for 10% or more of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, filed a complaint against Tessera, Inc. in December 2011, seeking a declaratory judgment that PTI had the right to terminate its license agreement due to a breach of contract by Tessera, Inc., and subsequently notified Tessera, Inc. in June 2012 of its purported termination of its license agreement. See Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings for additional detail. PTI also notified Tessera, Inc. in its June 2012 letter that PTI would make a final payment under the license agreement in July 2012, which Tessera, Inc. received and is included in our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2012. If we are not able to replace the revenue from PTI or if we receive an adverse determination in the litigation with PTI, it could have a substantial adverse impact on our royalty revenue in the near term. In addition, our license agreement with Micron Technology, Inc., another customer that accounted for 10% or more of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, expired in May 2012. If we are not able to enter into a new license agreement with Micron Technology, Inc., it would have a substantial adverse impact on our royalty revenue in the near term. We expect to continue to be involved in material legal proceedings in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, including material litigation with existing licensees or strategic partners, which could harm either of our business segments, or both. From time to time, our efforts to obtain a reasonable royalty through our sales effort does not result in the prospective customer agreeing to license our patents. In those cases, we generally will use litigation in order to secure payment for past infringement and as means of securing future royalties for the use of our patents in the customer’s products. We also litigate to enforce our other intellectual property rights, to enforce the terms of our license agreements, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others and to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Our current legal actions, as described in Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings, are examples of disputes and litigation that impact our business. We expect to be involved in similar legal proceedings in the future, including proceedings to ensure proper and full payment of royalties by licensees under the terms of their license agreements. These existing and any future legal actions may harm either or both of our business segments, and may hinder our ability to independently optimize each of them. For example, they could cause an existing licensee or strategic partner to cease making royalty or other payments to us, or to challenge the validity and enforceability of our patents or the scope of our license agreements, and could significantly damage our relationship with such licensee or strategic partner and, as a result, prevent the adoption of our other Intellectual Property or DigitalOptics technologies by such licensee or strategic partner. Litigation could also severely disrupt or shut down the business operations of our licensees or strategic partners, which in turn would significantly harm our ongoing relations with them and cause us to lose royalty revenues. Moreover, the timing and results of any of our legal proceedings are not predictable and may vary in any individual proceeding. From time to time we identify products that we believe to infringe our patents. We seek to license the manufacturer of those products but often the manufacturer is unwilling to enter into a license agreement and then 7 Table of Contents we may elect to enforce our patent rights against those products. Litigation stemming from these or other disputes could also harm our relationships with other licensees or our ability to gain new customers, who may postpone licensing decisions pending the outcome of the litigation or dispute, or who may, as a result of such litigation, choose not to adopt our technologies. In addition, these legal proceedings could be very expensive and may reduce or eliminate our profits. The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable and not completely within our control. These costs may be materially higher than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results and lead to volatility in the price of our common stock. Whether or not determined in our favor or ultimately settled, litigation diverts our managerial, technical, legal and financial resources from our business operations. Furthermore, an adverse decision in any of these legal actions could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others, limit the value of our licensed technology or otherwise negatively impact our stock price or our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Even if we prevail in our legal actions, significant contingencies will exist to their settlement and final resolution, including the scope of the liability of each party, our ability to enforce judgments against the parties, the ability and willingness of the parties to make any payments owed or agreed upon and the dismissal of the legal action by the relevant court, none of which are completely within our control. Parties that may be obligated to pay us royalties could be insolvent or decide to alter their business activities or corporate structure, which could affect our ability to collect royalties from such parties. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of a proxy fight and the actions of activist stockholders. We recently received a notice from Starboard Value and Opportunity Master Fund Ltd (“Starboard”) to nominate seven individuals for election to our Board of Directors, although Starboard has not yet announced how many nominees it will actually seek to elect. If a proxy contest results from this notice or proposal or if other activist activities continue, our business could be adversely affected because: • Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees; • Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and • If individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plans or to realize value from our acquired or intangible assets, and this could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business prospects and on our results of operations and financial condition. A proxy contest could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility. From time to time we enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates and if, upon expiration or termination, we are unable to renew or relicense such license agreements on terms favorable to us, our results of operations could be harmed. From time to time we enter into license agreements that have fixed expiration dates. Upon expiration of such agreements we need to renew or replace these agreements in order to maintain our revenue base. For example, our license agreement with Micron Technology, Inc. expired in May 2012. Micron Technology, Inc. accounted for 10% or more of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 and has since entered into a definitive sponsor agreement to acquire and support Elpida Memory, Inc., a leading dynamic random access 8 Table of Contents memory (“DRAM”) manufacturer, which is expected to close in the first half of 2013 subject to numerous closing conditions and approvals. If we fail to replace the expired Micron Technology, Inc. license agreement, it will have a negative impact on our revenue and our results of operations. Furthermore, we may not be able to continue licensing customers on terms favorable to us, under the existing terms or at all, which would harm our results of operations. While we have expanded our licensable technology portfolio through internal development and patents purchased from third parties, there is no guarantee that these measures will lead to continued royalties. If we fail to continue to do business with our current licensees, our business would be materially adversely affected. The success of our licensing business is dependent on the quality of our patent portfolios and our ability to create and implement new technologies or expand our licensable technology portfolio through acquisitions. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from licenses and royalties. The success of our licensing business depends on our ability to continue to acquire and develop high quality patent portfolios. We devote significant resources to sourcing and acquiring patent portfolios and to developing new technologies to address the evolving needs of the semiconductor and the consumer and communication electronics industries and we must continue to do so in the future to remain competitive. The competition for acquiring high quality patent portfolios is intense and there is no assurance that we can continue to acquire such patent portfolios on favorable terms. Moreover, developments in our technologies are inherently complex, and require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. We may not be able to develop and market new or improved technologies in a timely or commercially acceptable fashion. Furthermore, our acquired and developed patents will expire in the future. Our current U.S. issued patents expire at various times from 2013 through 2031. We need to develop or acquire successful innovations and obtain revenue-generating patents on those innovations before our current patents expire, and our failure to do so would significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are currently involved in litigation and administrative proceedings involving some of our key patents; any invalidation or limitation of the scope of our key patents could significantly harm our business. As more fully described in Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings, we are currently involved in litigation involving some of our patents. The parties in these legal actions have challenged the validity, scope, enforceability and ownership of our patents. In addition, reexamination requests have been filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) with respect to patent claims at issue in one or more of our litigation proceedings, and oppositions have been filed against us with respect to our patents in the European Patent Office. Under a reexamination proceeding and upon completion of the proceeding, the PTO may leave a patent in its present form, narrow the scope of the patent or cancel some or all of the claims of the patent. The PTO issued several Official Actions rejecting or maintaining earlier rejections of many of the claims in some of our patents. We are currently asserting these patents and patent claims in litigation and administrative proceedings. If the PTO’s adverse rulings are upheld on appeal and some or all of the claims of the patents that are subject to reexamination are canceled, our business may be significantly harmed. In addition, counterparties to our litigation and administrative proceedings may seek and obtain orders to stay these proceedings based on rejections of claims in the PTO reexaminations, and other courts or tribunals reviewing our legal actions could make findings adverse to our interests, even if the PTO actions are not final. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these proceedings or the myriad procedural and substantive motions in these proceedings. If there is an adverse ruling in any legal or administrative proceeding relating to the infringement, validity, enforceability or ownership of any of our patents, or if a court or an administrative body such as the PTO limits the scope of the claims of any of our patents, we could be prevented from enforcing or earning future revenues from those patents, and the likelihood that customers will take new licenses and that current licensees will continue to agree to pay under their existing licenses could be significantly reduced. The resulting reduction in license fees and royalties could significantly harm our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, or the trading price of our common stock. 9 Table of Contents Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal and administrative proceedings may result in substantial legal expenses and diverts our management’s time and attention away from our other business operations, which could significantly harm our business. Our enforcement proceedings historically have been protracted and complex. The time to resolution and complexity of our litigation, their disproportionate importance to our business compared to other companies, the propensity for delay in patent litigation, and the potential that we may lose particular motions as well as the overall litigation all could cause significant volatility in our stock price and materially adversely affect our business and consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The timing of payments under our license agreements may cause fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations. From time to time we enter into license agreements that include pricing or payment terms that result in quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year fluctuations in our revenues, such as volume pricing adjustments. The effect of these terms may also cause our aggregate annual royalty revenues to grow less rapidly than annual growth in overall unit shipments in the applicable end market. Additionally, our licensees may fail to pay, delay payment of or underpay what they owe to us under our license agreements, which may in turn require us to enforce our contractual rights through litigation, resulting in payment amounts and timing different than expected based on the terms of our license agreements. This also may cause our licensing revenues to fluctuate on a quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year basis. Recent changes to U.S. patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may adversely impact our business. Our business relies in part on the uniform and historically consistent application of U.S. patent laws and regulations. There are numerous recent changes and proposed changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the PTO, which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, on September 16, 2011, President Obama signed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act which codifies significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a “first to invent” to a “first inventor to file” system, limiting where a patentee may file a patent suit, requiring the apportionment of patent damages, replacing interference proceedings with derivation actions and creating a post-grant opposition process to challenge patents after they have been issued. The effects of these changes on our patent portfolio and business have yet to be determined, as the PTO is still in the process of implementing regulations relating to these changes and the courts have yet to address many of the new provisions. In addition, in recent years, the courts have interpreted U.S. patent laws and regulations differently, and in particular the U.S. Supreme Court has decided a number of patent cases and continues to actively review more patent cases than it has in the past. Some of these changes or potential changes may not be advantageous for us, and may make it more difficult to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our patents against parties using them without a license or payment of royalties. These changes or potential changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our patent rights, and could have a deleterious effect on our licensing program and, therefore, the royalties we can collect. Some of our license agreements may convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, and we may not receive royalties after that time. Tessera, Inc.’s license agreement with Texas Instruments, Inc. automatically converts to a fully paid-up license on December 31, 2013, assuming that Texas Instruments complies with all terms and conditions of the license agreement up through its expiration. In addition, Tessera, Inc.’s license agreement with Samsung Electronics Co, Ltd converts to a fully paid-up license after the expiration of its extended term in May 2017. We may not receive further royalties from licensees for any licensed technology under those agreements if they convert to fully paid-up licenses because such licensees will be entitled to continue using some, if not all, of 10 Table of Contents Tessera, Inc.’s relevant intellectual property under the terms of the license agreements without further payment, even if relevant patents are still in effect. If we cannot find another source of revenue to replace the revenues from these license agreements converting to fully paid-up licenses, our results of operations following such conversion would be materially adversely affected. The current DRAM market conditions are challenging, and if such conditions do not improve, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Current conditions in the DRAM market are challenging. From time to time prices for DRAM chips are less than our licensees’ or potential licensees’ variable costs of making that chip. The DRAM market has gone through many cycles of unprofitability, resulting in the bankruptcy, consolidation or discontinuation of DRAM production by many semiconductor companies. For example, Elpida Memory Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection in 2012, and Micron Technology, Inc. has subsequently entered into a definitive sponsor agreement to acquire and support Elpida Memory Inc., which is expected to close in the first half of 2013 subject to numerous closing conditions and approvals. We are unable to predict the effect of the current market conditions on our licensees or potential licensees. The poor profitability, bankruptcy, consolidation or discontinuation of DRAM production by any of these companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant amount of our royalty revenues comes from a few end markets and products, and our business could be harmed if demand for these market segments or products declines. A significant portion of our royalty revenues comes from the manufacture and sale of packaged semiconductor chips for dynamic random memories, digital signal processors, application-specific standard product semiconductors, application-specific integrated circuits and memory. In addition, we derive substantial revenues from the incorporation of our technology into mobile devices. If demand for semiconductors in any one or a combination of these market segments or products declines, our royalty revenues will be reduced significantly and our business would be harmed. The long-term success of our Intellectual Property business is dependent on a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. The long-term success of our Intellectual Property business is dependent on future royalties paid to us by licensees. Royalty payments under our licenses are primarily based upon the number of electrical connections to the semiconductor chip in a package covered by our licensed technology. We also have royalty arrangements in which royalties are paid based on a percent of net sales, a per package, or a per unit sold basis. We are dependent upon our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties, as well as upon our licensees’ compliance with their agreements. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: • the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers and assemblers; • the willingness and ability of materials and equipment suppliers to produce materials and equipment that support our licensed technology, in a quantity sufficient to enable volume manufacturing; • the ability of our licensees to purchase such materials and equipment on a cost-effective and timely basis; • the demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; • the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology; • the impact of economic downturns; and • the timing of receipt of royalty reports may not meet our revenue recognition criteria resulting in fluctuation in our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenues. The terms of our license agreements generally require our licensees to document their use of our technology and report related data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our license terms generally give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, and may not be cost justified based on our understanding of our licensees’ businesses. Our license compliance program audits certain licensees to review the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty revenues to which we are entitled under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that such audits will be effective to that end. The future success of our DigitalOptics business depends on our ability to become a vertically integrated camera module supplier. As part of our DigitalOptics business, we currently derive revenues from licenses to and royalties from our DigitalOptics technologies in consumer electronics, such as mobile phones, digital still cameras, wireless devices, personal computers and other consumer electronics. Our future success depends upon transitioning our image enhancement solutions into the mobile imaging market through delivering revolutionary MEMS-based camera modules and becoming a vertically integrated camera module supplier. Any of the following factors could limit the growth of our DigitalOptics technology, and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations: • our ability to innovate and provide solutions at lower costs, with improved performance, or with more enhanced features than our competitors; • the relevant markets’ rate of adoption of our DigitalOptics technologies; • our ability to build a robust supply chain to support product ramp plans; • our ability to raise or generate sufficient capital to execute product ramp plans; and • our competitors who may have superior products or solutions which take away market share or design wins from us. The markets for semiconductors and related products and camera modules are highly concentrated, and we may have limited opportunities to license our technologies or sell our products. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated in that a small number of semiconductor designers and manufacturers account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor products generally, including our products and products incorporating our technologies. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry may increase this concentration. For example, Micron Technology, Inc. entered into a definitive sponsor agreement to acquire and support Elpida Memory Inc., which is expected to close in the first half of 2013 subject to numerous closing conditions and approvals. Accordingly, we expect that licenses of our technologies and sales of our products will be concentrated with a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. As we acquire new technologies and integrate them into our product line, we will need to establish new relationships to sell these products. Our financial results depend in significant part on our success in establishing and maintaining relationships with, and effecting substantial sales to, these customers. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining such relationships, our financial results will be dependent in large part on these customers’ sales and business results. This is also true for the camera module market which is the target market for our DigitalOptics business. In this market, a small number of OEMs account for a substantial portion of purchases of camera-enabled cell phones and other mobile devices. We have been promoting the adoption of our technologies in this market through the supply chain infrastructure by signing licenses with the sensor, lens and camera manufacturers and assemblers. Consolidation of the OEMs may affect our licensees’ ability to maintain or establish relationships with these OEMs through which they sell products incorporating our DigitalOptics technologies. As a result, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve technological feasibility or profitability or that may limit our revenue growth. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing of new technologies, products and services, including MEMS-based autofocus technologies. Investments in new technologies are speculative and technological feasibility may not be achieved. Commercial success depends on many factors including innovativeness and demand for the technology, availability of materials and equipment, selling price the market is willing to bear, competition and effective licensing or product sales. We may not achieve significant revenues from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, new technologies, products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically or originally anticipated. We are unable to predict when we will begin to generate meaningful revenue from our MEMS-based technology, if we are able to do so at all. We have invested a significant amount of our resources into acquiring and developing our MEMS-based technology. We do not yet have meaningful revenues from those technologies, whether through licensing arrangements or product sales. We are in the process of converting the manufacturing facility in Zhuhai, China that we acquired in June 2012, from fixed focus camera modules manufacturing, to the production of our MEMS-based camera modules. However, we do not currently have a customer base for MEMS-based camera modules, and we cannot be certain whether and when these and our other efforts will lead to the generation of meaningful revenue from our MEMS-based camera modules. If we are unable to do so in a timely fashion, or at all, our business prospects will be significantly impacted and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Competing technologies may harm our business. We expect that our technologies will continue to compete with technologies of internal design groups at semiconductor manufacturers, assemblers, electronic component and system manufacturers, image sensor and lens manufacturers and camera module companies such as Omnivision Technologies, Inc., Aptina Imaging Corporation, STMicroelectronics, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co, Ltd., and Toshiba Corporation. The internal design groups of these companies create their own packaging, imaging and optics solutions. If these internal design groups design around our patents or introduce unique solutions superior to our technology, they may not need to license our technology. These groups may design technology that is less expensive to implement or that enables products with higher performance or additional features. Many of these groups have substantially greater resources, greater financial strength and lower cost structures which may allow them to undercut our price. They also have the inherent advantage of access to internal corporate strategies, technology roadmaps and technical information. As a result, they may be able to bring alternative solutions to market more easily and quickly. For our DigitalOptics technologies, our MEMS-based autofocus technology enables high-precision control of a moving lens for autofocus functionality with a small form factor. This technology compete with autofocus technologies including traditional lens-motion-type autofocus, emerging lens-modification-type autofocus, solutions using voice coil motor technology, and also other computational-type autofocus solutions and other solutions and technologies provided by companies such as DxO Labs. Our Micro-optics products such as the diffractive optical elements used in off-axis illumination for lithography, face competition from products offered by other Micro-optics manufacturers such as JenOptik A.G. as well as emerging technologies such as ASML’s FlexRay technology. Our wafer-level camera solution competes with both the traditional lens vendors who enjoy an established supply chain, as well as other wafer-level optics technologies offered by companies such as Heptagon Oy and Anteryon B.V. For the embedded image processing technologies such as Face Detection and our other FaceTools products, our offerings compete with other image processing software vendors such as ArcSoft, Inc. as well as internal design groups of our customers providing similar technologies by employing 13 Table of Contents different approaches. Our competitors in the lens actuator field include VCM manufacturers such as Mitsumi Electric Co., Ltd, Shikoh, and TDK Corporation. We also expect to see other competing technologies emerge. In the future, our licensed technologies may also compete with other technologies that emerge. These technologies may be less expensive and provide higher or additional performance. Companies with these competing technologies may also have greater resources. Technological change could render our technologies obsolete, and new, competitive technologies could emerge that achieve broad adoption and adversely affect the use of our technologies and intellectual property. If we do not successfully further develop and commercialize the technologies we acquire, or cultivate strategic relationships that expand our licensable technology portfolio, our competitive position could be harmed and our operating results adversely affected. We also attempt to expand our licensable technology portfolio and technical expertise by acquiring and further developing new technologies or developing strategic relationships with others. These strategic relationships may include the right for us to sublicense technology and intellectual property to others. However, we may not be able to acquire or obtain rights to licensable technology and intellectual property in a timely manner or upon commercially reasonable terms. Even if we do acquire such rights, some of the technologies we invest in may be commercially unproven and may not be adopted or accepted by the industry. Moreover, our research and development efforts, and acquisitions and strategic relationships, may be futile if we do not accurately predict the future needs of the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics, and consumer imaging industries. Our failure to acquire new technologies that are commercially viable in the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics, and consumer imaging industries could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The way we integrate internally developed and acquired technologies into our products and licensing programs may not be accepted by customers. We have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, considerable time and resources to developing, acquiring and integrating new and existing technologies into our products and licensing programs. However, if customers do not accept the way we have integrated our technologies, they may adopt competing solutions. In addition, as we introduce new products or licensing programs, we cannot predict with certainty if and when our customers will transition to those new products or licensing programs. If customers fail to accept new or upgraded products or licensing programs incorporating our technologies, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights and our confidential information, our business will suffer. We rely primarily on a combination of license, development and nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our technology and intellectual property. If we fail to protect our technology and intellectual property, our licensees and others may seek to use our technology and intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. The growth of our business depends in large part on our ability to obtain intellectual property rights in a timely manner, our ability to convince third parties of the applicability of our intellectual property rights to their products, and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights against them. In certain instances, we attempt to obtain patent protection for portions of our technology, and our license agreements typically include both issued patents and pending patent applications. If we fail to obtain patents in a timely manner or if the patents issued to us do not cover all of the inventions disclosed in our patent applications, others could use portions of our technology and intellectual property without the payment of license fees and 14 Table of Contents royalties. For example, our business may suffer if we are unable to obtain patent protection in a timely manner from the PTO due to processing delays resulting from examiner turnover and a continuing backlog of patent applications. We also rely on trade secret laws rather than patent laws to protect other portions of our proprietary technology. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. The misappropriation of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could seriously harm our business. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and customers. We cannot be certain that these contracts have not been and will not be breached, that we will be able to timely detect unauthorized use or transfer of our technology and intellectual property, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If we fail to use these mechanisms to protect our technology and intellectual property, or if a court fails to enforce our intellectual property rights, our business will suffer. We cannot be certain that these protection mechanisms can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated or challenged. Further, the laws and enforcement regimes of certain countries do not protect our technology and intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement regimes of the U.S. For example, it may be particularly difficult to protect our DigitalOptics technology and intellectual property in the manufacturing facility in Zhuhai, China that we acquired in June 2012. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, including China, we may be unable to protect our technology and intellectual property adequately against unauthorized use, which could adversely affect our business. Our business may suffer if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. Third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that such claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and will divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, third parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could block our ability to further develop or commercialize some or all of our products or services in the U.S. and abroad. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards. Even if we have an agreement that provides for a third party to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to perform its contractual obligations under the agreement. If we cannot or do not license the infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could suffer. Failure by the semiconductor industry to adopt our packaging technology for the next generation high performance DRAM chips would significantly harm our business. To date, our packaging technology has been used by several companies for high performance DRAM chips. For example, packaging using our technology is used for DDR2 and DDR3 DRAM and we currently have licensees, including SK hynix Inc. and Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd., who are paying royalties for DRAM chips in advanced packages. DRAM manufacturers are also currently developing next generation high performance DRAM chips, including next generation of DDR referred to as DDR4, to meet increasing speed and performance requirements of electronic products. We believe that these next-generation, high performance DRAM chips will require advanced packaging technologies such as CSP. We anticipate that royalties from shipments of these next-generation, high performance DRAM chips packaged using our technology may account for a significant percentage of our future revenues. If semiconductor manufacturers do not continue to use packages employing our technology for the next generation of high performance DRAM chips and find a viable alternative packaging technology for use with next generation high 15 Table of Contents performance DRAM chips, or if we do not receive royalties from next generation, high performance DRAM chips that use our technology, our future revenues could be adversely affected. Our technology may be too expensive for certain next generation high performance DRAM manufacturers, which could significantly reduce the adoption rate of our packaging technology in next generation high performance DRAM chips. Even if our package technology is selected for at least some of these next generation high performance DRAM chips, there could be delays in the introduction of products utilizing these chips that could materially affect the amount and timing of any royalty payments that we receive. Other factors that could affect adoption of our technology for next generation high performance DRAM products include delays or shortages of materials and equipment and the availability of testing services. Our licensing cycle is lengthy and costly, and our marketing, legal and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. We generally incur significant marketing, legal and sales expenses prior to entering into our license agreements, generating a license fee and establishing a royalty stream from each licensee. The length of time it takes to establish a new licensing relationship can take 18 months or longer for an Intellectual Property license and 24 months or longer for some DigitalOptics licenses. As such, we may incur significant losses in any particular period before any associated revenue stream begins. Tessera Intellectual Property Corp. incurs significant reverse engineering expenditures on products of potential licensees in order to prepare sales and marketing collateral. We employ intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate licensees, potential licensees and original equipment manufacturers about the benefits of our technologies. In addition, even if these companies adopt our technologies, they must devote significant resources to integrate fully our technologies into their operations. If our marketing and sales efforts are unsuccessful, then we will not be able to achieve widespread acceptance of our technology. In addition, ongoing litigation could impact our ability to gain new licensees which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our licensees delay or are unable to make payments to us due to financial difficulties, or shift their licensed products to other companies to lower their royalties to us, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. A number of companies in the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries are facing severe financial difficulties. As a result, there have been recent bankruptcies and restructuring of companies in these industries. Our licensees may face similar financial difficulties which may result in their inability to make payments to us in a timely manner or if at all. In addition, our licensees may merge with or may shift the manufacture of licensed products to companies that are not currently licensees to us. This could make the collection process complex and difficult which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The success of our recently acquired manufacturing facility in Zhuhai, China will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating the acquired business and assets into our operations. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our integration of the manufacturing facility and related assets that we acquired in Zhuhai, China from Flextronics International, Ltd. in June 2012 (the “Zhuhai Transaction”) on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: • difficulties operating in the People’s Republic of China, where the Company has limited direct prior experience; • difficulties integrating the relatively large number of personnel from the acquired business into our human resource processes and programs; 16 Table of Contents • failure to maintain relationships with existing suppliers of the acquired business or to obtain alternate sources of supply for such business; and • failure to integrate our existing DigitalOptics technologies, such as our MEMS solutions, with the manufacturing capabilities of the acquired business. Our failure to successfully integrate the acquired business and assets may delay or undermine our ability to execute on our business plan for the DigitalOptics business, which would adversely affect our business and operations. We do not have extensive experience in manufacturing and marketing products, and as a result, may be unable to successfully execute on our business plan for the DigitalOptics segment. We acquired our first large-scale manufacturing operation in the Zhuhai Transaction, and are in the process of transforming that manufacturing operation away from the production of fixed focus camera modules toward camera modules based on our MEMS technology. We are also investing in lens design and manufacturing capability in our factory in Taiwan. While we have hired personnel with manufacturing and product marketing experience, we do not, as a company, have extensive experience in these areas. We have a development group in Arcadia, California, that must successfully transfer new product programs to mass production, but we do not have any proven experience in this transfer process. Therefore, our relative lack of experience may make it difficult for us to manufacture DigitalOptics products in commercial quantities while meeting the quality, price, engineering, design, and production standards required to profitably market those products. Even if we are successful in integrating and developing our manufacturing capabilities and processes, we do not know whether we will do so in time to satisfy the requirements of customers. Failure to meet the manufacturing requirements of customers, including Tier One OEMs, and the failure to successfully market our products to such customers, would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations could expose us to liabilities and claims that we have not previously experienced, and such operations, as well as our entire DigitalOptics business, could be subject to litigation risks arising from our Intellectual Property business. Our commencement of large-scale manufacturing operations resulting from the completion of the Zhuhai Transaction and completion of our Taiwan factory could significantly increase the risk that our DigitalOptics business becomes subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. We do not have prior experience in such manufacturing for markets in which third parties may hold a substantial body of patents and other intellectual property rights. Moreover, the risks of third-party infringement claims could be heightened by our need to engage in enforcement activities in our Intellectual Property business, as existing or potential customers of our Intellectual Property business may seek to assert infringement claims against our DigitalOptics business in response to our enforcement activities in our Intellectual Property business. Competitors of our DigitalOptics business would not be subject to such heightened risk of third-party claims, and such claims could adversely affect our DigitalOptics business as well as impair our enforcement ability and results in our Intellectual Property business. Although a separation of our DigitalOptics business might partially abate our heightened vulnerability in this regard, such a separation remains speculative, and there can be no assurance that we ultimately will determine to separate or to be successful in separating such business. As a larger portion of our revenues is generated from product sales, we may rely on outsourced high volume manufacturing, which is inherently risky. As we integrate internally developed technologies into products, we may rely on outsourced high volume manufacturing by utilizing third party wafer foundry, camera lens, packaging, assembly and test capabilities. Doing so could present risks to our operations, including: • reduced control over delivery schedules, yields, capacity and quality assurance; • limited number of vendors capable of manufacturing our high technology products; 17 Table of Contents • limited availability of vendor capacity for our products which may delay time to market; • failure of vendors to meet our technical requirements; • difficulty in determining target inventory levels based on forecasted demand, which may not be reliable; • infringement or misappropriation of other third parties’ or our intellectual property; • limited warranties on products and services supplied to us; and • overhead costs of developing and maintaining a global supply chain. If any vendor in the supply chain materially fails to perform, or if we are required to find an alternate vendor and are not able to do so on a timely basis, or if these vendors materially increase their prices, our business strategy could be harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We could experience losses due to product liability claims which could result in substantial costs to us. We sell products and provide services that may subject us to product liability claims in the future. Although we carry liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate, product liability claims can be costly and any future product liability claim made against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies, be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a product liability loss is covered by our insurance policies, such policies contain substantial retentions and deductibles that we would be required to pay. Our existing insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that presently in effect, or at all. The payment of retentions or deductibles for a significant amount of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our DigitalOptics solutions currently rely on the use of certain materials and proprietary equipment from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. The lack of availability of these materials or proprietary equipment could delay the execution of our business strategy and adversely affect our revenues. We currently rely on the use of certain materials available from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for the manufacturing of our small form factor micro-optics. In addition, we utilize proprietary assembly equipment for certain critical steps of the lens barrel assembly process. If any or some of these materials or proprietary equipment become unavailable, or, if any of these suppliers cease operations and we cannot find an alternative source, our development efforts could be delayed and our revenues from our DigitalOptics business could be adversely affected. Our financial and operating results may vary, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly or annual comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate during any period or that could adversely affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives include those listed in this “Risk Factors “section of this report and the following: • the timing of and compliance with license or service agreements and the terms and conditions for payment to us of license or service fees under these agreements; • fluctuations in our royalties caused by the pricing terms of certain of our license agreements; • changes in our royalties caused by changes in demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; 18 Table of Contents • decrease in our revenues caused by price erosion on high performance camera modules incorporating our DigitalOptics technologies; • the amount of our product and service revenues; • the timing of obtaining product orders and executing our manufacturing plan for our MEMS solutions; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • delays in our introduction of new technologies or market acceptance of these new technologies through new license agreements; • our ability to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or the terms of our agreements; • legal proceedings affecting our patents, patent applications or license agreements; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing technologies; • changes in demand for semiconductor chips in the specific end markets in which we concentrate; • changes in demand for semiconductor capital equipment, digital still cameras and other camera-enabled devices including cell phones, security systems and personal computers; • the timing of the conclusion of license agreements; • the time it takes to establish new licensing arrangements could be lengthy; • the timing of meeting the requirements for revenue recognition under accounting principles; • changes in accounting principles; and • cyclical fluctuations in semiconductor markets generally. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, reports from market and security analysts, litigation-related developments, and other factors, the price at which our common stock will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In future periods, if our revenues or operating results are below the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. Our stockholders may not receive the level of dividends provided for in our dividend policy or any dividend at all, and any decrease in or suspension of the dividend could cause our stock price to decline. Our initial dividend policy, adopted and announced in March 2012, contemplates the payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share on our outstanding common stock. We expect to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at the rate set forth in our current dividend policy. However, the dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends under the policy are subject to the final determination each quarter by our Board of Directors that the policy remains in our best interests, which determination will be based on a number of factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital resources and capital requirements, alternative uses of capital, economic condition and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. Given these considerations, our Board of Directors may increase or decrease the amount of the dividend at any time and may also decide to suspend or discontinue the payment of cash dividends in the future. Any decrease in the amount of the dividend, or suspension or discontinuance of payment of a dividend, could cause our stock price to decline. 19 Table of Contents The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2012, we held approximately $103.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $338.8 million in short-term investments. These investments include various financial securities such as municipal bonds and notes, corporate bonds and notes, commercial paper, treasury and agency notes and bills, and money market funds. The weakened financial markets, originally caused by the sub-prime mortgage crisis in the U.S., has at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Additionally, changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee and recent concerns about the rising U.S. government debt level may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We operate in a highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declining economic conditions, maturing product and technology cycles, and excess inventories. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends heavily upon the volume of production by our licensees, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors. Similarly, our product revenues rely at least in part upon the demand of the semiconductor equipment market. Semiconductor manufacturers and package assembly companies generally sharply curtail their spending during industry downturns, such as in the recent global economic downturn, and historically have lowered their spending more than the decline in their revenues. As a result, our businesses results have been, and will be in the future, significantly impacted by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. If we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower revenues from our licensees and service customers in such downturns, our results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely impacted. Changes in financial accounting or existing taxation standards, rules, practices or interpretation may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations which may impact our reported results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretations by the SEC and various accounting bodies. In addition, we are subject to various taxation rules in many jurisdictions. The existing taxation rules are generally complex, frequently changing and often ambiguous. Changes to existing taxation rules, changes to the financial accounting standards such as the proposed convergence to international financial reporting standards, or any changes to the interpretations of these standards or rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Recent accounting pronouncements and their estimated potential impact on our business are addressed in Note 3—“Recent Accounting Pronouncements” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks that may have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, and we may have difficulty protecting our intellectual property in some foreign countries. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from licensees headquartered outside of the U.S. We have also expanded our operations outside of the U.S., including manufacturing operations in China and Taiwan, and our research and development facilities in Ireland, Japan, Romania and Taiwan to design, develop, test or market 20 Table of Contents certain technologies. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: • fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as our revenues are denominated principally in U.S. dollars and a portion of our costs are based in local currencies where we operate; • changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • withholding tax obligations on license revenues that we may not be able to offset fully against our U.S. tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may re-characterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; • security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest; • differing employment practices, labor issues and business and cultural factors; • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the U.S. or other developed countries; and • limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers. Our intellectual property is also used in a large number of foreign countries. There are many countries in which we currently have no issued patents. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater problem for us as our licensees increase their manufacturing and sales in countries which provide less protection for intellectual property. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business, if we undertake any restructuring activities or if we dispose of a business division or dispose of or discontinue any product lines. We plan to continue the expansion of our operations, domestically and internationally, and may continue to do so through both internal growth and acquisitions. For example, in June 2012, we closed the Zhuhai Transaction. This expansion may strain our systems and management, operational and financial controls and resources. In addition, we are likely to incur higher operating costs. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our management, systems and financial controls. We also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. We cannot ensure that we will be able to timely and effectively meet demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. Furthermore, production orders from customers and licensees of the acquired businesses may decline from historical levels. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth or we are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. From time to time, we may undertake to restructure our business, including the disposition of a business division, or the disposition or discontinuance of a product line. For example, in 2011, we announced that we are exploring a possible separation of our DigitalOptics business from the parent corporation and, in November 2012, we announced the planned closure of our facility located in Tel Aviv, Israel and the facility will be closed 21 Table of Contents in the first quarter of 2013. We also announced in November 2012 the potential sale of our DigitalOptics manufacturing facility based in Charlotte, North Carolina. There are several factors that could cause a restructuring, a disposition or a discontinuance to have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. These include potential disruption of our operations and our information technology systems, the timing of development of our technology, the deliveries of products or services to our customers, changes in our workforce and other aspects of our business. In addition, such actions may increase the risk of claims or threats of lawsuits by our customers or former employees. In the case of a disposition of a product line, there may be a risk of not identifying a purchaser, or, if identified, the purchase price may be less than the net asset book value for the product line. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and we may lose employees whom we want to keep. Any restructuring, disposition or discontinuance would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. There are no assurances that the restructuring, disposal or discontinuance will reduce our operating expenses. We may also incur other significant liabilities and costs including employee severance costs, relocation expenses, and impairment of lease obligations and long-lived assets. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. We may be unable to identify or complete a favorable transaction to separate our DigitalOptics business. Although we have previously announced that we are exploring a possible separation of our DigitalOptics business from the parent corporation and incentivized our CEO to successfully spin off this business segment, we have not set a definitive timetable for completing our exploration of strategic alternatives for the DigitalOptics business, and there can be no assurance that the process will result in the identification or selection of a transaction, that any transaction that is identified or selected will be completed, or that a completed transaction will be favorable to us and our stockholders. There are numerous hurdles to such a transaction, including the ongoing operating losses of the DigitalOptics business, which make it uncertain whether such business could be operated as a stand-alone company or would attract interest from any potential buyer. In order to realize our business plan for the DigitalOptics business, we will need to invest a significant amount of capital into our DigitalOptics business and may make additional acquisitions. Even if the manufacturing operation acquired in the Zhuhai Transaction is successfully integrated into our operations, the success of our business plan for the DigitalOptics business, including the goal to become a vertically integrated camera module supplier, will require substantial additional capital expenditures, increased working capital, and additional acquisitions. For example, we recently made significant capital expenditures to build a manufacturing facility on Taiwan. Additionally, we are making inventory purchases and entering into related purchase commitments. These and other investments in our DigitalOptics business may result in restructuring and asset impairment charges which would adversely affect the financial results of the Company. There can be no assurance that our existing capital resources and cash from operations will be sufficient to fund such capital expenditures and make additional acquisitions, and such uncertainty could be compounded if we pursue a separation of our DigitalOptics business, a possibility we announced in April 2011. We may need to raise capital or fund acquisitions through the issuance of debt or equity securities or the sale of assets; however, we may not be able to secure debt financing or equity financing on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we have or obtain all necessary funding, we may nevertheless be unable to identify and execute suitable acquisitions to grow the DigitalOptics business. If our existing capital resources or cash from operations are not sufficient and we are unable to obtain necessary capital to execute on our DigitalOptics business plan, or to make additional acquisitions, it would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disputes regarding our intellectual property may require us to indemnify certain licensees, the cost of which could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. While we generally do not indemnify our licensees, some of our license agreements in our DigitalOptics business provide limited indemnities for certain actions brought by third parties against our licensees, and some 22 Table of Contents require us to provide technical support and information to a licensee that is involved in litigation for using our technology. We expect to agree to provide similar indemnity or support obligations to future licensees. Our indemnity and support obligations could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to indemnify or supply such support to our licensees, a licensee’s development, marketing and sales of licensed DigitalOptics products could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. None of our senior management, key technical personnel or key sales personnel are bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance covering our key personnel or restrictions on their post-employment ability to solicit our employees, contractors or customers if key personnel voluntarily terminate their employment. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Moreover, some of the individuals on our management team have been in their current positions for a relatively short period of time. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. Competition for qualified senior employees can be intense. We have also experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our growth and expansion. Further, we must train our new personnel, especially our technical support personnel, to respond to and support our licensees and customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our licensees or customers, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business. Changes to our enterprise resource planning and other key software applications could cause unexpected problems to occur and disrupt the management of our business. We are currently contemplating an upgrade to our enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”), and other management information systems which are critical to the operational, accounting and financial functions of our company. Significant management attention and resources would be used and extensive planning would be required to support effective implementation of a new ERP and other such systems. In addition, such implementation may carry certain risks, including the risk of significant design errors, and unexpected difficulties may arise that could materially and adversely affect the accuracy and timely reporting of our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. Our business operations could suffer in the event of information technology systems’ failures or security breaches. Despite system redundancy and the implementation of security measures within our internal and external information technology and networking systems, our information technology systems may be subject to security breaches, damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, terrorism, and telecommunication failures. Any system failure or security breach could cause interruptions in our operations in addition to the possibility of losing proprietary information and trade secrets. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. 23 Table of Contents Decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. Since the adoption of the authoritative guidance on share-based payment, we have recorded significant compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. Difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans or changes to the plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant stock-based compensation to employees in the future. As a result, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could harm our business. We use hazardous substances in the manufacturing and testing of prototype products and in the development of our technologies in our research and development laboratories. We are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances. Our past, present or future failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, and alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other substantial expenses. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liabilities under certain statutes. The imposition of such liabilities could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our effective tax rate depends on our ability to secure the tax benefits of our international corporate structure, on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and on how we operate our business. Our international corporate structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner in which we market, develop, use and license our intellectual property, fund our operations and structure transactions with our international subsidiaries, may result in the reduction of our worldwide effective tax rate. Such international corporate structure and intercompany arrangements are subject to examination by the tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States. The application of the tax laws of these jurisdictions to our international business activities is subject to interpretation and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. Moreover, such tax laws are subject to change. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, including our transfer of intangibles, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences. Additionally, future changes in the tax laws (such as proposed legislation to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities) may have an adverse effect on our international corporate structure and operations. The result of an adverse determination of any of the above items could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. We have business operations located globally in places that are subject to natural disasters. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our locations may be subject to earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters. Should a hurricane, earthquake or other catastrophe, such a fire, flood, tsunami, power loss, communication failure or similar event disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could conduct our business. 24 Table of Contents We have made and may continue to make or to pursue acquisitions which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, or be difficult to integrate, which may adversely affect our financial results. We have made several acquisitions, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire companies, assets, patent portfolios and technologies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Investigating businesses, assets, patent portfolios or technologies and integrating newly acquired businesses, assets, patent portfolios or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such activities divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations or operations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, impairment charges related to goodwill and possible impairment charges related to other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Our plans to integrate and expand upon research and development programs and technologies obtained through acquisitions may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market. Similarly, our plans to establish and to expand manufacturing operations for new products in China and potentially other countries may result in products that do not achieve anticipated customer acceptance or sales. The market may adopt competitive solutions to our products or technologies. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, assets, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. There are numerous risks associated with our acquisitions of businesses, technologies and patents We have made a number of acquisitions of businesses, technologies and patents in recent years. These acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: • These acquisitions could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. As a result, these acquisitions could result in a reduction of net income per share as compared to the net income per share we would have achieved if these acquisitions had not occurred. • The purchase price for each acquisition is determined based on significant judgment on factors such as projected value, quality and availability of the business, technology or patent. In addition, if other companies have similar interests in the same business, technology or patent, our ability to negotiate these acquisitions at favorable terms may be limited and the purchase price may be artificially inflated. • Following completion of these acquisitions, we may uncover additional liabilities, patent validity, infringement or enforcement issues or unforeseen expenses not discovered during our diligence process. Any such additional liabilities, patent validity, infringement or enforcement issues or expenses could result in significant unanticipated costs not originally estimated, such as impairment charges of acquired assets and goodwill, and may harm our financial results. For example, during 2011 we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $49.7 million, mainly due to a significant decline in our market capitalization for an extended period of time. • The integration of technologies, patent portfolios and personnel, if any, will be a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customer relations could be damaged. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from any of these acquisitions. • We have incurred substantial direct transaction costs as a result of these acquisitions and anticipate incurring substantial additional costs to support the integration of these businesses and technologies. The total cost of the integration may exceed our expectations. 25 Table of Contents • Sales by the acquired businesses may be subject to different accounting treatment than our existing businesses, especially related to the recognition of revenues. This may lead to potential deferral of revenues due to new multiple-element revenue arrangements. • There is a significant time lag between acquiring a patent portfolio and recognizing revenue from those patent assets. During that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred in preparing licensing and/or litigation campaigns that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. • We may require external financing that is dilutive, presents risks of debt or shares a corporate opportunity with a third party. • We are required to estimate and record fair values of contingent assets, liabilities, deferred tax assets and liabilities at the time of an acquisition. Even though these estimates are based on management’s best effort, the actual results may differ. Under the current accounting guidance, differences between actual results and management’s estimate could cause our operating results to fluctuate or could adversely affect our results of operations. If our amortizable intangible assets (such as acquired patents) or equity investments become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. In addition to internal development, we intend to broaden our intellectual property portfolio through strategic relationships and acquisitions. We believe this will enhance the competitiveness and size of our current businesses and diversify into markets and technologies that complement our current businesses. These acquisitions could be in the form of asset purchases, equity investments, or business combinations. As a result, we may have intangible assets which are amortized over their estimated useful lives, equity investments, in-process research and development, and goodwill. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to periodically review our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, such as patent portfolio, and equity investments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or equity investments may not be recoverable include a decline in future cash flows, fluctuations in market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or slower than anticipated adoption of our products by our customers. In 2011, we recorded an impairment of goodwill of $49.7 million due to a significant decline in our market capitalization for an extended period of time. As we continue to review for factors that may affect our business which may not be in our control, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our amortizable intangible assets or equity investments is determined, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial position or results of operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, new SEC regulations and the NASDAQ Stock Market rules, have created uncertainty for companies. These laws, regulations and standards are often subject to varying interpretations. As a result, their application in practice may evolve as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result of our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, we have increased and may continue to increase general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our 26 Table of Contents company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, authorize the board to issue “blank check” preferred stock, prohibit stockholder action by written consent, eliminate the right of stockholders to call special meetings, limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors, and establish advance notice procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 