ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure of our schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations and loss of external financial aid funding. In 2011, we derived approximately 75% of our revenues, on a cash basis, from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this Report on Form 10-K as Title IV Programs, administered by ED. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified as an eligible institution by ED. As a result, our institutions are subject to extensive regulation by the state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to acquire, expand or open additional institutions or campuses, add new, or expand our existing educational programs and change our corporate structure and ownership. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an “institution” defined by ED as a main campus and its additional locations, if any. Under ED’s definition, we have three such institutions. The state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If our institutions failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our schools’ operations, terminate our schools’ ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, revoke our schools’ accreditation or terminate their eligibility to receive Title IV Program funds, each of which could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition, and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. We believe that we have described the most significant regulatory risks that apply to our schools in the following paragraphs. Failure to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could materially and adversely affect our business. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must be authorized to offer its programs by the relevant state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified as eligible by ED. The substantial amount of federal funds disbursed through Title IV Programs, the large number of students and institutions participating in those programs and instances of fraud and abuse have prompted ED to exercise significant regulatory oversight over institutions participating in Title IV Programs. Accrediting commissions and state agencies also oversee compliance with both their respective standards and with Title IV Program requirements. As a result, each of our institutions is subject to detailed oversight and review and must comply with a complex framework of laws and regulations. Because ED periodically revises its regulations and changes its interpretation of existing laws and regulations, we cannot predict with certainty how Title IV Program requirements will be applied in all circumstances. Additionally, given the complex nature of the regulations, the fact that they are subject to multiple interpretations, and the large volume of Title IV transactions in which we are involved, it is reasonable to conclude that, from time to time, in the conduct of our business, we may inadvertently violate such regulations. In such an event, remedial action may be necessary, regulatory proceedings could occur and regulatory penalties could be assessed, any of which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition. 29 Significant factors relating to Title IV Program eligibility that could adversely affect us include the following: State Authorization A campus that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among states. State authorization is also required for students to be eligible for funding under Title IV Programs. Loss of state authorization by any of our campuses from the education agency of the state in which the campus is located would end that campus’ eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the campus, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Accreditation A school must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED in order to participate in Title IV Programs. Loss of accreditation by any of our campuses would end that campus’ participation in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the campus, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a change in accreditation to a more restrictive or monitored status could restrict our ability to add new programs, open new campuses or increase recruitment activity, which could also have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The “90/10 Rule” Under the “90/10 Rule,” a for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if it derives more than 90% of its revenue from those programs for two consecutive institutional fiscal years, under a cash-basis calculation mandated by ED. The period of ineligibility covers at least the next two succeeding fiscal years, and any Title IV Program funds already received by the institution and its students during the period of ineligibility would have to be returned to ED or the applicable lender, if FFEL loans were included in the calculation. If an institution exceeds the 90% level for a single year, ED will place the institution on provisional certification for a period of at least two years. If we are placed on provisional certification status for any reason, ED may more closely view any application we file for recertification, new locations, new educational programs, revisions to existing educational programs, acquisitions of other schools, increase in degree level or other significant changes. Furthermore, for an institution that is provisionally certified, ED may revoke the institution’s certification without advance notice or advance opportunity to challenge the action. In our 2011 fiscal year, under the regulatory formula prescribed by ED, none of our institutions derived more than 80% of its revenues from Title IV Programs. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, such a loss would adversely affect our students’ access to Title IV Program funds they need to pay their educational expenses, which could reduce our student population and would have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Federal Student Loan Defaults An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels. Based upon the most recent student loan default rates published by ED, none of our institutions has student loan default rates that exceed the specified levels. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs because of high student loan default rates, such a loss would adversely affect our students’ access to various Title IV Program funds which could reduce our student population and would have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Financial Responsibility Standards To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by ED or post a letter of credit in favor of ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV Programs. The operating conditions that may be placed on a school that does not meet the standards of financial responsibility include being transferred from the advance payment method of receiving Title IV 30 Program funds to either the reimbursement or the heightened cash monitoring system, which could result in a significant delay in the institution’s receipt of those funds or increased administrative costs relating to those funds. We are not currently required to post a letter of credit on behalf of any of our schools and are not subject to additional operating conditions. We may be required to post letters of credit in the future, which could increase our costs of regulatory compliance, or change the timing of receipt of Title IV Program funds. Our inability to obtain a required letter of credit or the imposition of other limitations on our participation in Title IV Programs could limit our students’ access to Title IV Program funds, which could reduce our student population and could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Return of Title IV Funds A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that has been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing them and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner to ED or the appropriate lender, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of ED, pay interest on the late repayment of funds, or be otherwise sanctioned by ED, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, the failure to timely return Title IV Program funds also could result in the termination of eligibility to receive such funds going forward or the imposition of other sanctions. Any of these results could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Given the complex nature of the regulations applicable to Title IV refunds and the fact they are subject to multiple interpretations, and the large volume of such transactions in which we are involved, it is reasonable to conclude that, from time to time, in the conduct of our business, we may inadvertently violate such regulations. In such an event, remedial actions may be necessary, regulatory proceedings could occur and regulatory penalties could be assessed. Administrative Capability ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV Programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all Title IV Program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer Title IV Programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • administer the Title IV Programs with adequate checks and balances in its system of internal controls over financial reporting; • divide the function of authorizing and disbursing or delivering Title IV Program funds so that no office has the responsibility for both functions; • establish and maintain records required under the Title IV Program regulations; • develop and apply an adequate system to identify and resolve discrepancies in information from sources regarding a student’s application for financial aid under Title IV Programs; • do not have a student loan cohort default rate above specified levels; • refer to the Office of the Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, student, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV Programs; • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is the cause of debarment or suspension; • provide adequate financial aid counseling to its students; • timely submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and 31 • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, ED may: • require the repayment of Title IV Program funds; • impose a less favorable payment system for the institution’s receipt of Title IV Program funds; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV Programs. Effective July 1, 2011, new regulations went into effect, adding additional provisions related to evaluation of the validity of high school diplomas for establishing high school completion and referencing the revised satisfactory academic progress requirements. If we fail to maintain administrative capability as defined by ED, we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or have that eligibility adversely conditioned, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial decrease in student financing options, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a negative effect on our student population and consequently, on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The student loan market has undergone significant changes in the past few years including increased regulations from the HEA reauthorization in 2008, elimination of the FFEL program in 2010, and contraction in credit markets that has reduced availability of private student loans for certain institutions and/or students. Many banks and lending institutions have discontinued their private student loan programs. Those that have stayed in the market have increased financing costs, both rates and fees, to offset the risks associated with offering unsecured debt. Additionally, the broader economic environment has put pressure on students’ ability to repay their loans, resulting in higher default rates. These factors may result in lending institutions continuing to exit the student loan market and for other providers to determine not to enter the market, which could decrease the availability of alternative loans to postsecondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative loans that seek to enroll. Prospective students may find that increased financing costs make borrowing to fund their education costs unattractive and motivate them to abandon or delay enrollment in postsecondary education programs such as ours. Tight credit markets may also move private lenders to impose on us and on our prospective and continuing students new or increased fees in order to provide alternative loans. If any of these scenarios were to occur, in whole or in part, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and could result in a decrease in our student population, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV Programs which could reduce our student population, revenues and/or profit margin. Congress periodically revises the HEA, and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. Congress most recently reauthorized the HEA in 2008 and the new law contains numerous revisions to the requirements governing Title IV Programs as discussed throughout this Report on Form 10-K. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our schools or students to receive funding through these programs could reduce our student population and revenues. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase administrative costs, reduce the ability of students to finance their education at our schools, and materially decrease student enrollment and result in decreased profitability. Congress has continued its examination of the for-profit education sector that could result in legislation or further ED rulemaking restricting Title IV Program participation by for-profit schools in a manner that materially and adversely affects our business. Congress continues to be intensely focused on for-profit education institutions, specifically regarding participation in Title IV Programs and U.S. Department of Defense oversight of tuition assistance for military service members attending for-profit colleges. Since June 2010, the Senate HELP Committee has held several 32 hearings examining the business practices of for-profit institutions such as ours. The hearings have focused on for-profit schools’ student recruitment and marketing practices, their percentage of revenue from Title IV Program funds, and the quality, cost, and completion rates of programs at for-profit institutions. The most recent of these hearings was entitled, “Improving For-Profit Higher Education: A Roundtable Discussion of Policy Solutions.” In coordination with the HELP Committee hearings, Chairman Harkin has released two reports critical of for-profit institutions and has announced that he intends to introduce legislation aimed at addressing what he perceives as abusive practices of some for-profit institutions. He will also most likely hold additional oversight hearings of the for-profit school industry should he remain HELP Committee Chairman in the next Congress. In September 2011, Senators Harkin, Carper and Webb held a press conference to release what was referred to as “new data” detailing the top recipients of Post-9/11 GI Bill funds. The Senators stated that there would be bipartisan legislation introduced by the end of the calendar year 2011 to include military and veteran funding in the 90 percent portion of the 90/10 calculation. The Senators also discussed the possibility of congressional action to: (i) roll back 90/10 to 85/15; (ii) strengthen the existing incentive compensation regulations and (iii) to reinstate the “50% Rule,” which would restrict schools from receiving Title IV Program funds if they offer more than half their courses via distance education or enroll more than half of their students in online programs. Additionally, the Senators announced several other legislative priorities, including ensuring that the gainful employment rule is not repealed and instituting a federal performance-based funding mechanism, so that education funds are distributed based on student outcomes, such as completion and job placement. Following the press conference, the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, Subcommittee on Federal Financial Management, Government Information, Federal Services, and International Security, held a hearing entitled “Improving Educational Outcomes for our Military and Veterans.” The representatives from the Veteran’s Administration described current and upcoming compliance and reporting requirements that they have initiated to monitor student outcomes. They also spoke of an ongoing taskforce which included the Department of Defense, Veteran’s Administration and Department of Education that was convened to address many of the issues affecting military and veteran students. On August 5, 2010, the HELP Committee formally requested information and documents from 30 for-profit schools, including 15 privately-held institutions and all publicly-traded institutions, including us. We complied with the request in a timely manner. The Committee sought this information in the pursuit of an accurate and in-depth understanding of how for-profit schools use Federal resources such as Title IV Program aid. This Congressional activity could result in the enactment of more stringent legislation by Congress, further rulemakings affecting participation in Title IV Programs and other governmental actions, increasing regulation of the for-profit sector. Action by Congress may also increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our institutions to comply with Title IV Program requirements. In addition, concerns generated by this Congressional activity may adversely affect enrollment in for-profit educational institutions such as ours. Any laws that are adopted that limit our or our students’ participation in Title IV Programs or in programs to provide funds for active duty service members and veterans or the amount of student financial aid for which our students are eligible, or any decreases in enrollment related to the Congressional activity concerning this sector, could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. For a description of additional information regarding Congress’ examination of the for-profit education sector, see “Business — Regulatory Environment — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Congressional Action” included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. Compliance with the Program Integrity regulations could materially and adversely affect our business. On October 29, 2010, ED issued new regulations pertaining to certain aspects of the administration of Title IV Programs, regulations which, with minor exceptions, became effective July 1, 2011. Since publication of the new regulations in October, ED has issued interpretive guidance on the new regulations in the form of multiple Dear Colleague Letters to institutions. The letters provide sub-regulatory guidance on certain aspects of the new regulations which assists institutions with understanding the regulations in these areas. We made certain assumptions and interpretations of the program integrity regulations and interpretive guidance publications and 33 implemented solutions to comply with the new regulations based on those assumptions and interpretations. Interpretation of the new regulations is subject to change as ED provides further guidance and clarification. Existing or future understandings could be different from ED’s interpretations and thus lead to repayments, restrictions, fines or litigation. Such further guidance or differences could require us to make additional changes in our operations and could reduce our student populations and increase our cost of doing business, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, on June 13, 2011, ED published new regulations related to the metrics for determining whether an academic program prepares students for gainful employment, which will become effective July 1, 2012. The new regulations that have the most significant potential impact on our business are the following: • new requirements about what constitutes satisfactory state authorization for institutions to offer postsecondary education in a state; • the gainful employment requirements; • determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours and the assignment of credit hours; • the elimination of the 12 safe harbors regarding the incentive compensation prohibition; • the revised definition of “substantial misrepresentation” that could impose enhanced liability on institutions of higher education; and • the requirement to notify ED of, and possibly obtaining ED’s approval to offer, additional programs of study that lead to gainful employment. State Authorization The new regulations established standards for state authorization that have to be met in order for the state authorization to be adequate for purposes of establishing the eligibility of an institution to participate in Title IV Programs. ED will determine whether a state’s institutional authorization and complaint process satisfies ED’s regulations. We cannot predict the extent to which ED will determine that the institutional authorization or complaint review process of any state satisfies ED’s regulations. These new regulations became effective July 1, 2011 and will compel our institutions to respond quickly to evolving state requirements. Any change in state law based on these provisions could require significant changes to our operations and require us to meet significantly more stringent compliance requirements which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Gainful Employment ED promulgated final regulations on June 13, 2011, which will become effective on July 1, 2012, imposing additional Title IV Program eligibility requirements on certain educational programs. Our programs are subject to ED requirements that the programs prepare students for “gainful employment in a recognized occupation”. The gainful employment regulations published on June 13, 2011 establish metrics for determining whether a program will qualify as such an educational program. For additional information on the metrics, see “Business — Regulatory Environment — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Program Integrity” included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. If an academic program fails the applicable metrics in three out of four years, the academic program would become ineligible to participate in Title IV Program funding for at least three years. The gainful employment standards will be calculated on a fiscal year basis beginning with FFY 2012. The first year for which eligibility could be lost for a program is 2015, which would occur if the program fails all applicable standards for each of 2012, 2013, and 2014. On the basis of this regulation, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV Program funding could be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the actual or deemed income level of our graduates, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, changes in the federal poverty income level, changes in the percentage of our former students who are current in repayment of their student 34 loans, and other factors. Additionally, even though deficiencies in the metrics may be correctible on a timely basis, the disclosure requirements to students following a failure to meet the standards may adversely impact enrollment in that program and may adversely impact the reputation of our educational institutions. Any loss of program eligibility on the basis of this regulation and any requirement to make negative disclosures concerning our programs could materially and adversely affect our student enrollment, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. On July 1, 2011, consistent with ED’s gainful employment disclosure requirements issued on October 29, 2010, we established a webpage to disclose to the general public certain information about our programs, including recognized occupations, costs, completion rate, graduate employment rate and median loan debt of program completers. The webpage is located at www.uti.edu/disclosure. This requirement for reporting information relating to our programs to assist prospective students in making informed decisions has increased our administrative burdens. These reporting and the other procedural changes resulting from the new rules may impact student populations which may have a material impact on the manner in which we conduct our business, the nature of our programs, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Assignment of Credit Hours and Clock Hours New regulations effective July 1, 2011 establish standard definitions of program and course measurements for Title IV Program credit hours applicable to all institutions approved by ED and expand the definition of programs that must be measured in terms of clock hours for Title IV Program purposes. On March 18, 2011, ED issued a Dear Colleague Letter that provided limited guidance regarding the regulatory requirements, but left unresolved issues related to the appropriate measurement of credit hours and triggers for clock hour treatment. To date, ED has not responded to requests from postsecondary institutions to clarify the credit/clock hour requirements and therefore the impact of the rule on our operations remains unclear. However, if ED were to determine that our credit hour assignments are incorrect or that our programs must be treated as clock hour programs, the Title IV Program funds available for students enrolled in such programs to pay for their cost of education could be significantly less than currently available. Students interested in any programs of study that ED determines must be measured in clock hours or which should have been assigned fewer credit hours may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Additionally, ED could assess a repayment liability for any funds disbursed under the credit hour calculation for which the institutions are not eligible. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Incentive Compensation An institution participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or the award of financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The laws and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance. As we discussed in previous filings, we made modifications to our employee compensation structures to comply with the revisions to ED regulations on incentive compensation that became effective July 1, 2011, which included the elimination of the safe harbors in the regulations that were in effect prior to July 1, 2011. Other companies in the industry have experienced and reported material adverse impacts to their business when they implemented changes to their compensation practices, but we cannot fully predict whether we will experience a similar impact given our dissimilar solutions, culture and timing, nor can we predict how significant any such impact will be. Our operating costs have changed and may continue to change materially based on any adjustments to compensation that we have made. The revisions to the governing regulations may adversely affect our ability to compensate our employees and our compensation practices for third parties. Given the fact that ED does not intend to review individual institutions’ compensation plans and the elimination of the safe harbors, we 35 anticipate it will be even more difficult to determine what constitutes compliance with the incentive compensation restrictions after the July 1, 2011 effective date of the new regulations than it was prior to July 1, 2011. If we violate the current or prior version of the laws or regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Revisions to Misrepresentation Regulations The new regulations make significant changes to the definition of misrepresentation for purposes of Title IV Program compliance. That term now includes any false, erroneous or misleading statement that has the likelihood or tendency to deceive or confuse without regard to materiality or intent. The new regulations also establish institutional liability for any statements made by any third party agent of our institutions or UTI and for statements made to any member of the public, an accrediting agency or any state agency, as well as to students. The new regulations also broaden the administrative remedies available to ED in the event of a substantial misrepresentation by an eligible institution to include: revocation of the institution’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs; imposition of limitations on the institution’s participation in Title IV Programs; denial of participation applications filed on behalf of the institution; and initiation of a termination, fine or other proceeding against the institution. Furthermore, the regulation creates potential new exposure in qui tam actions under the False Claims Act. Any failure to comply with these regulations could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. ED Approvals for New Programs In addition to the qualitative Gainful Employment Requirements adopted on June 13, 2011, the new regulations issued by ED contained provisions imposing increased notification and approval requirements for the award of Title IV Program funds in any additional programs to be offered by a for-profit institution, and new disclosure requirements that will apply to programs that are required to demonstrate gainful employment in a recognized occupation. These provisions became effective July 1, 2011 and apply to educational programs offered by our schools, and could affect the manner in which we conduct our business, as well as our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to comply with these regulations or to obtain new program approval on a timely basis could have a materially negative effect on our ability to add new programs or change existing programs, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Potential Impact of New Rule In addition to the program integrity issues specifically addressed above, the new regulations issued by ED include provisions regarding the following: (i) the types of statements by an institution or parties related to an institution that constitute prohibited misrepresentation; (ii) written agreements between institutions, particularly institutions under common ownership or control; (iii) the administration of ability-to-benefit examinations; (iv) requirements regarding an institution’s return of Title IV Program funds; and (v) certain other issues pertaining to a student’s eligibility to receive Title IV Program funds. We cannot predict how the recently released or any other resulting regulations will be interpreted, and therefore whether we will be able to comply with these requirements. Compliance with the new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have devoted significant effort to understanding the effects of the new regulations on our business and to developing compliant solutions that are also congruent with our business, culture and mission to serve our students and industry partners. However, these solutions, related to implementation and compliance with these final rules, including but not limited to gainful employment, compensation, the definition of a credit hour, state authorization and the broadened definition of misrepresentation, may have a material impact on the manner in which we conduct our business, our student populations, and the nature of our programs, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the solutions may require further analysis based on the uncertainty noted above and any additional interpretive guidance that is provided. For a description of additional information regarding these regulatory changes, see “Business — Regulatory Environment — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Program Integrity” included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. 36 Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. Because all Title IV Program student loans other than the Perkins loans are now processed under the DL program, any processing disruptions by ED may impact our students’ ability to obtain student loans on a timely basis. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the DL program, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of ED to process the increased volume of Direct Loans on a timely basis, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely and materially affected. Limited opportunities for private alternative student loans for our students could increase the need for institutional funding, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The current state of the national economy and generalized lending crisis has led to a contracted lending environment, resulting in limited lender choices for students who need a private alternative loan to meet gaps between Title IV Program funding and cost of education. Furthermore, lender underwriting criteria has been much more stringent, resulting in fewer prospective borrowers being approved for their loans. As lenders seek to reduce their risk on portfolios of new alternative loans, we have seen many lenders move to shift their target markets exclusively to four-year baccalaureate degree schools. We currently have a list of three private unaffiliated alternative loan providers to assist new borrowers in selecting a lender, with two of these lenders providing the vast majority of our private alternative student loans. If these lenders decided to decline to lend to students attending our schools, and we were not able to find alternative lenders, the demand for our proprietary loan program could increase, requiring us to devote greater than planned resources which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties alleging noncompliance with applicable standards. While we are committed to strict compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and accrediting standards, if the results of government, regulatory or third party reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of regulatory approvals or Title IV Program funding, injunctions or other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims. Additionally, given the significant public scrutiny being placed on the sector, numerous state attorneys general have initiated investigations either of the operation of the for-profit schools in their state or of particular institutions operating in that state. Although none of these investigations has been directed at us to date, it is possible that additional states will initiate investigations or one of the states with such investigations will focus directly on one or more of our schools. Our business and stock price could be adversely affected as a result of regulatory investigations of, or actions commenced against, other companies in our industry. In recent years, the operations of a number of companies in the education and training services industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. Such scrutiny has increased more over the last few months and we anticipate that trend to continue. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing on the part of such companies have resulted in formal or informal investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, state governmental agencies and ED. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, focusing not only on the individual schools but in some cases on the for-profit postsecondary education sector as a whole. These investigations of specific companies in the education and training services industry could have a negative impact on our industry 37 as a whole and on our stock price. Furthermore, the outcome of such investigations and any accompanying adverse publicity could negatively affect student enrollment, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Budget constraints in some states may affect our ability to obtain necessary authorizations or approvals from those states to conduct or change our operations. Due to state budget constraints in some of the states in which we operate, it is possible that some states may reduce the number of employees in, or curtail the operations of, the state education agencies that authorize our schools. A delay or refusal by any state education agency in approving any changes in our operations that require state approval, such as the opening of a new campus, the introduction of new programs or the revision of existing programs, a change of control or the hiring or placement of new education representatives, could prevent us from making such changes or could delay our ability to make such changes, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The new regulations may lengthen the time to obtain necessary state approvals and may increase the nature and type of state regulation such that it would require us to modify our operations in order to comply with the new requirements. This could impose substantial additional costs on our institutions, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could reduce our student population and negatively affect our 90/10 Rule calculation. A significant number of states are facing budget constraints that are causing them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. Many of those states provide financial aid to our students. These and other states may decide to reduce or redirect the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any of these reductions will be or how long they will last. If the level of state funding available to our students decreases and our students are not able to secure alternative sources of funding, our student population could be reduced, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, loss of state funding would negatively impact our 90/10 Rule calculation, as this funding is counted in the non-Title IV Program funds portion of the ratio, and, such loss would drive up the percentage of revenue attributable to Title IV Programs. Furthermore, the reduction or elimination of these non-Title IV sources of student funding may adversely affect our 90/10 Rule calculation and the cost of our compliance with the 90/10 Rule by increasing the proportion of the affected students’ funding needs satisfied by Title IV Programs. If regulators do not approve our acquisition of a school that participates in Title IV Program funding or the opening of an additional location, the acquired school and/or the additional location would not be permitted to participate in Title IV Programs, which could impair our ability to operate the acquired school and/or the additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school and/or opening of the additional location. If we acquire a school that participates in Title IV Program funding and/or open an additional location, we must obtain approval from ED and applicable state education agencies and accrediting commissions in order for the school and/or additional location to be able to operate and participate in Title IV Programs. While we would attempt to ensure we will be able to receive such approval prior to acquiring a school and/or opening an additional location, approval may be withheld. An acquisition can result in the temporary suspension of the acquired school’s participation in Title IV Programs and opening an additional location can result in a delay of the campus’ participation in Title IV Programs unless we submit a timely and materially complete application for approval of the acquisition or the opening of the new location. Upon an acquisition, ED will only grant a temporary certification while it reviews the application. If we were unable to timely re-establish or establish the state authorization, accreditation or ED certification of the acquired school or obtain approval for the new location, our ability to operate the acquired school and/or open the additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school and/or the opening of the additional location could be impaired. 38 If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company or any of our schools, our ability to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired. If we or any of our schools experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, our accrediting commission or ED, we or the affected schools must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. These agencies do not have uniform criteria for what constitutes a change of ownership or control. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock or significant changes in the composition of our board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from ED, our accrediting commission or any state in which our schools are located would impair our ability to participate in Title IV Programs, which would have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, approval of any change of control from any state in which we do not have a school but in which we recruit students could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in that state until we receive the required approval. The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV Programs could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to effectively fill our existing capacity, we may experience a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins. We have underutilized seating capacity at several of our campuses. Our ongoing efforts to fill existing seating capacity may strain our management, operations, employees or other resources. We may not be able to maintain our current seating capacity utilization rates, effectively manage our operation or achieve planned capacity utilization on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to fill our underutilized seating capacity, we may experience operating inefficiencies that likely will increase our costs more than we had planned resulting in a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins. Our proprietary loan program could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Our proprietary loan program enables students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other financial aid and are unable to obtain private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition if they meet certain criteria. Under the terms of the proprietary loan program agreements with a national chartered bank, the bank originates loans for our students who meet our specific credit criteria with the related proceeds to be used exclusively to fund a portion of their tuition. We then purchase all such loans from the bank on a monthly basis and assume all the related credit and collection risk. At September 30, 2011, we had committed to provide loans to our students for approximately $34.2 million and of that amount, there was $25.5 million in loans outstanding. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, we placed $2.0 million, an amount that exceeds the FDIC insurance limits, on deposit with the national chartered bank. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include: current economic conditions; compliance with laws applicable to the origination; servicing and collection of loans; the quality of our loan servicers’ performance; a decline in graduate employment opportunities and the priority that the borrowers under this loan program, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. To the extent collections become less than the amount of revenue recorded, we may still experience an increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts, our bad debt expense may increase, and a reduction in our profitability. Federal, state and local laws and public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans under our proprietary loan program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend this student loan program for a 39 variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. All of these factors could result in the proprietary loan program having a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to originate, process and service loans under our proprietary loan program. If these companies fail or discontinue providing such services, our business could be harmed. A small federally chartered national bank with a small market capitalization originates loans under our proprietary loan program. If the bank no longer provides service under the contract, we do not have an alternative bank to fulfill the demand. There are a limited number of national banks that are willing to participate in a program such as our proprietary loan program. The time it could take us to replace the bank could result in an interruption in the loan origination process which could result in a decrease in our student populations. Furthermore, because our $2.0 million deposit at such bank is in excess of the FDIC insurance limits, if such bank were to go out of business or fail, we may lose all or almost all of our deposit. Also, a single company processes loan applications and services the loans under our proprietary loan program. There is a 90-day termination clause in the contract under which they provide these services. If this company were to terminate the contract, we could experience an interruption in loan application processing or loan servicing, which could result in a decrease in our student populations. Increasing fuel prices and living expenses could affect our ability to attract and retain students. Our ability to attract and retain students is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors such as higher fuel prices and living expenses. Affordability concerns associated with increased gas, housing prices and the availability of part-time jobs for students attending classes have made it more challenging and expensive for us to attract and retain students. If we are unable to attract and retain students due to economic factors, our student population may decrease, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Failure on our part to maintain and expand existing industry relationships and develop new industry relationships with our industry customers could impair our ability to attract and retain students. We have extensive industry relationships that we believe afford us significant competitive strength and support our market leadership. These relationships enable us to support undergraduate enrollment by attracting students through brand name recognition and the associated prospect of high-quality employment opportunities. Additionally, these relationships allow us to diversify funding sources, expand the scope and increase the number of programs we offer and reduce our costs and capital expenditures due to the fact that, pursuant to the terms of the underlying contracts with OEMs, we provide a variety of specialized training programs and typically do so using tools, equipment and vehicles provided by the OEMs. These relationships also provide additional incremental revenue opportunities from training the employees of our industry customers. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand our existing industry relationships and to enter into new industry relationships. Certain of our existing industry relationships, including those with American Honda Motor Co. Inc., American Suzuki Motor Corp., Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corp., Volvo Penta of the Americas, Inc. and Yamaha Motor Corp., USA, are not memorialized in writing and are based on verbal understandings. As a result, the rights of the parties under these arrangements are less clearly defined than they would be were they in writing. Additionally, certain of our existing industry relationship agreements expire within the next six months. We are currently negotiating to renew these agreements and intend to renew them to the extent we can do so on satisfactory terms. The reduction or elimination of, or failure to renew any of our existing industry relationships, or our failure to enter into new industry relationships, could impair our ability to attract and retain students require additional capital expenditures or increase expenses. This could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 40 Competition could decrease our market share and create tuition pricing concerns. The postsecondary education market is highly competitive. Some traditional public and private colleges and universities and community colleges, as well as other private career-oriented schools, offer programs that may be perceived by students to be similar to ours. Most public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies and other financial sources not available to for-profit schools. Some other for-profit education providers have greater financial and other resources which may, among other things, allow them to secure industry relationships with some or all of the OEMs with which we have relationships or develop other high profile industry relationships or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. Additionally, some other for-profit education providers already have a more extended or dense network of schools and campuses than we do, thus enabling them to recruit students more effectively from a wider geographic area. We may limit tuition increases or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, revenues and operating margin may decrease. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements in the automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine industries. Accordingly, educational programs, at our schools must keep pace with those technological advancements. Additionally, the method used to deliver curriculum has been evolving to include on-line delivery. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs, including our transformed Automotive Technology and Diesel Technology II curricula, and changes in the method in which we deliver them, may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the technical education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as the industries we serve require or as quickly as our competitors. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our graduate employment rates could suffer. We transformed our Automotive Technology and Diesel Technology II curricula to a blend of daily instructor-led theory and hands-on lab training complimented by interactive web-based learning, which is reflective of current industry training methods and standards. The blended learning model combines several methodologies for communicating training information and incorporates on-site classes, real-time web-based learning sessions and independent learning and is the standard used by our industry partners to provide continuous technical education. If we are unable to address and respond to requirements such as training instructors to teach the transformed curricula, develop an IT infrastructure that would effectively support this program, or obtain the appropriate equipment to teach this program to our students, we may not be able to successfully roll out the transformed curricula to our existing campuses in a timely, and cost-effective manner. If we are not able to effectively and efficiently integrate the transformed curricula or experience delays in development, this could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Macroeconomic conditions, particularly unemployment, could adversely affect our business. The U.S. economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries have been in the midst of an economic downturn in recent years. Additionally, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the continued decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. While these conditions may have contributed to a portion of the recent growth in our average full-time undergraduate student population as individuals sought to advance their education and improve their employment 41 opportunities, the length and depth of these circumstances and unemployment within our potential student demographic may be contributing to declines in new student starts. Furthermore, these circumstances may continue to reduce the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees, and affect the ability of our students to find employment in the auto, diesel, motorcycle or marine industries, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans, such as the elimination of Pell, could adversely impact the ability of borrowers with little or poor credit history, such as many of our students, to borrow the necessary funds at an acceptable interest rate. These events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. We rely heavily on the reliability, security and performance of an internally developed student management and reporting system, and any difficulties in maintaining this system may result in service interruptions, decreased customer service, or increased expenditures. The software that underlies our student management and reporting has been developed primarily by our own employees. The reliability and continuous availability of this internal system is critical to our business. Any interruptions that hinder our ability to timely deliver our services, or that materially impact the efficiency or cost with which we provide these services, or our ability to attract and retain computer programmers with knowledge of the appropriate computer programming language, would adversely affect our reputation and profitability and our ability to conduct business and prepare financial reports. Additionally, many of the software systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products, either of which could entail considerable effort and expense. Our computer systems as well as those of our service providers are vulnerable to interruption, malfunction or damage due to events beyond our control, including malicious human acts, natural disasters, and network and communications failures. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, organized cyber attacks and other security problems and system disruptions. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems may nevertheless cause failures in our information technology systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to process information in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience with our company and within the technical education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, campus presidents, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of our business we face significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. Additionally, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Because we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance, the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire and train new education representatives, as well as retain and continue to develop our existing education representatives, who are our employees dedicated to student recruitment. Our ability to develop a strong education representative team may be affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to integrate and motivate our education representatives; our ability to effectively 42 train our education representatives; the length of time it takes new education representatives to become productive; the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining education representatives and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. Effective July 1, 2011, we made modifications to our employee compensation structure in order to comply with the elimination of the safe harbors in the regulations in place prior to this date. These modifications affected the compensation structure for our education representatives. Other companies in our industry have reported material adverse impacts to their business when changes to compensation have been implemented, but we cannot fully predict whether we will experience similar impact given our dissimilar solutions, culture and timing, nor can we predict how significant any such impact will be. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain quality education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. This could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operation and financial condition. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among high school graduates and adults seeking advanced training. The awareness of our programs among high school graduates and working adults seeking advanced training is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. Our inability to continue to develop awareness of our programs could reduce our enrollments and impair our ability to increase revenues or maintain profitability. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs: • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • diminished access to high school student populations; • our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; • our inability to maintain relationships with automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine manufacturers and suppliers; and • availability of funding sources acceptable to our students. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in total student population. Student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our schools have had lower student populations in our third fiscal quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year because fewer students are enrolled during the summer months. Our expenses, however, do not generally vary at the same rate as changes in our student population and revenues and, as a result, such expenses do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of acquisitions, new school openings, new program introductions and increased enrollments of adult students. Additionally, our revenues for our first fiscal quarter are adversely affected by the fact that we do not recognize revenue during the calendar year-end holiday break which falls primarily in that quarter. These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by or under the supervision of our principal executive and principal financial officer, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting 43 principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our internal control structure is also designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraud would be detected or prevented before our financial statements could be materially affected. Because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Additionally, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that our controls may become inadequate as a result of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures may deteriorate. If our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, our historical financial statements could require restatement which could negatively impact our reputation and lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure on our part to effectively identify, establish and operate additional schools or campuses could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy. As part of our business strategy we anticipate opening and operating new schools or campuses. Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools. Accordingly, when we open new schools, initial investments could reduce our profitability. To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. Additionally, to be eligible for Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by ED. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses. Our failure to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established schools or campuses could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or campuses more costly to operate than we have historically experienced. We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate future acquisitions. We may consider selective acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. Integration challenges include, among others, regulatory approvals, significant capital expenditures, assumption of known and unknown liabilities, our ability to control costs, and our ability to integrate new personnel. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired schools, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, future acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance. Additionally, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. A future acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets, charges relating to integration costs or an increase in the number of shares outstanding. In addition, our acquisition of a school is a change of ownership of that school, which may result in the temporary suspension of that school’s participation in federal student financial aid programs until it obtains ED’s approval. These results could have a negative effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition or result in dilution to current stockholders. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which may become impaired and subject to a write-down. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment, which might result from the deterioration in the operating performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in the applicable laws or regulations and a variety of other circumstances. Any resulting impairment charge would be recognized as an expense in the period in which impairment is identified. Our goodwill resulted from the acquisition of our motorcycle and marine education business in 1998. We allocated such goodwill, which totaled $20.6 million, to two of our reporting units that provide the related 44 educational programs. We assess our goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates estimated future cash flows for the next five years and an associated terminal value. Key management assumptions included in the cash flow model include future tuition revenues, operating costs, working capital changes, capital expenditures and a discount rate that approximates our weighted average cost of capital. While actual experience will differ from the amounts included in our cash flow model, we do not believe that a related impairment of our goodwill is reasonably possible in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 