ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Risks Related to Our Industry Failure of our schools to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for school operations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations and loss of external financial aid funding. In 2010, we derived approximately 73% of our revenues, on a cash basis, from federal student financial aid programs, referred to in this report as Title IV Programs, administered by ED. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED and be certified as an eligible institution by ED. As a result, our institutions are subject to extensive regulation by the state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED. These regulatory requirements cover the vast majority of our operations, including our educational programs, facilities, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing, recruiting, financial operations and financial condition. These regulatory requirements also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools, add new, or expand our existing educational programs and change our corporate structure and ownership. The agencies that regulate the schools also periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. Most ED requirements are applied on an institutional basis, with an “institution” defined by ED as a main campus and its additional locations, if any. Under ED’s definition, we have three such institutions. The state education agencies, our accrediting commission and ED periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If our institutions failed to comply with any of these regulatory requirements, our regulatory agencies could impose monetary penalties, place limitations on our schools’ operations, terminate our schools’ ability to grant degrees, diplomas and certificates, revoke our schools’ accreditation or terminate their eligibility to receive Title IV Program funds, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and impose significant operating restrictions upon us. We cannot predict with certainty how all of these regulatory requirements will be applied or whether each of our schools will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. Further, we are continuing to analyze the potential impact of the regulations issued by ED on October 29, 2010, which will implement significant changes in many regulatory areas including Title IV Program operations and state licensure. We believe that we have described the most significant regulatory risks that apply to our schools in the following paragraphs. A substantial decrease in student financing options, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a negative effect on our student population and consequently, on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In 2010, legislation was enacted that eliminated the FFEL loan program for all loans made as of July 1, 2010. As a result, all federal student lending will occur through the DL Program. Without the guarantee provided in the FFEL program, banks and other lending institutions have and are likely to continue to exit the student lending market or significantly decrease the amount of loans provided to students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative loans that seek to enroll in UTI. Without the guarantee, financing costs for our students’ loans will increase. Elimination of the FFEL loan program may have a negative effect on our results operations, cash flows and financial condition. Providers of student loans have also experienced increases in default rates. This, coupled with the elimination of the FFEL program, may result in providers of student loans continuing to exit the student loan market and for other providers to determine not to enter the market, which reduces the attractiveness and/or decreases the availability of alternative loans to postsecondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative 26 Table of Contents loans that seek to enroll. Prospective students may find that increased financing costs make borrowing to fund their education costs unattractive and motivate them to abandon or delay enrollment in postsecondary education programs such as our programs. Tight credit markets may also move private lenders to impose on us and our students new or increased fees in order to provide alternative loans to prospective and continuing students. If any of these scenarios were to occur, in whole or in part, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and could result in a decrease in our student population, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Congress may change the law or reduce funding for Title IV Programs which could reduce our student population, revenues and/or profit margin. Congress periodically revises the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), and other laws governing Title IV Programs and annually determines the funding level for each Title IV Program. Congress most recently reauthorized the HEA in 2008 and the new law contains numerous revisions to the requirements governing Title IV Programs as discussed throughout this Report. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our schools or students to receive funding through these programs could reduce our student population and revenues. Congressional action may also require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase administrative costs, reduce the ability of students to finance their education at our schools, and materially decrease student enrollment and result in decreased profitability. The U.S. Congress has recently commenced an examination of the for-profit education sector that could result in legislation or further ED rulemaking restricting Title IV Program participation by proprietary schools in a manner that materially and adversely affects our business. The 2010 Congress has increased its focus on for-profit education institutions in recent months, including regarding participation in Title IV Programs and U.S. Department of Defense oversight of tuition assistance for military service members attending for-profit colleges. Further, a number of legislators have variously requested that the U.S. Government Accountability Office review and make recommendations with respect to, among other things, recruiting practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of safeguards against fraud, waste and abuse in Title IV Programs and the percentage of revenue of for-profit colleges coming from Title IV Programs and other federal funding sources. Beginning in June 2010, HELP held three hearings examining the business practices of “proprietary institutions” such as ours. The hearings have focused on proprietary schools’ student recruitment and marketing practices, their percentage of revenue from Title IV Program funds, and the quality, cost, and completion rates of programs at proprietary institutions. On August 5, 2010, HELP formally requested information and documents from 30 for-profit schools, including 15 privately-held institutions and all publicly-traded institutions, including us. We complied with the request in a timely manner. The Committee sought this information in the pursuit of an accurate and in-depth understanding of how for-profit schools use Federal resources such as Title IV Program aid. The letter of inquiry contained no assertion of misuse of public funds or assumption of non-compliance with federal rules and/or regulations. While we believe we will be found to have operated in a substantially compliant manner with respect to federal law and ED regulations, at this time we cannot predict whether this inquiry will result in any material impact on the manner in which we conduct our business, or how significant any such impacts will be. In coordination with the HELP hearings, Chairman Harkin released two sharply critical reports on proprietary institutions and has announced that he intends to introduce legislation aimed at addressing what he perceives as abusive practices of some proprietary institutions. He will also most likely hold additional oversight hearings of the proprietary school industry should he remain HELP Chairman in the next Congress. These hearings and reports could result in the enactment of more stringent legislation, by Congress. To the extent that any laws are adopted that limit our or our students’ participation in Title IV Programs or the amount of student financial aid for which our students are eligible, our business would be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Further, action by Congress may also increase our administrative costs and require us to modify our practices in order for our institutions to comply with Title IV Program requirements. 27 Table of Contents In addition, in September, the House Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations held a hearing examining the quality of college education programs provided to active duty service members, including those provided by proprietary institutions such as ours. To the extent these hearings result in additional legislation that would impose additional oversight over participation of proprietary schools in tuition assistance for active duty service members and veterans our business could be materially adversely affected. This increased activity in Congress may result in legislation, further rulemakings affecting participation in Title IV Programs and other governmental actions. In addition, concerns generated by this Congressional activity may adversely affect enrollment in for-profit educational institutions. Limitations on the amount of Title IV Program funds for which our students are eligible under Title IV Programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. For a description of additional information regarding Congress’ examination of the for-profit education sector, see “Business — Regulatory Environment — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Congressional Action” included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. Pending rulemaking by ED may result in regulatory changes that could materially and adversely affect our business On October 29, 2010, ED issued final regulations pertaining to certain aspects of the administration of Title IV Programs. With minor exceptions, these regulations will become effective July 1, 2011. ED previously announced that it was delaying until early 2011 publication of final regulations on certain further proposed gainful employment regulations, which are expected to become effective July 1, 2012 or thereafter. Currently, we have identified the rules concerning gainful employment, compensation, the definition of a credit hour and the broadened definition of misrepresentation as the rules most likely to materially impact our business. We are in the process of reviewing and assessing the likely impact of the October 29, 2010 final regulations on our operations. Compliance with these final rules could have a material impact on the manner in which we conduct our business and the results of operations. We cannot currently predict how significant any such impact will be. For a description of additional information regarding these regulatory changes, see “Business — Regulatory Environment — Regulation of Federal Student Financial Aid Programs — Final rulemaking by the U.S. Department of Education” included elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K. Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans because of the phase-out of Federal Family Education Loan Program loans and the corresponding transition to direct student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. In 2010, we derived approximately 73% of our revenues, on a cash basis, from receipt of Title IV Program funds, principally from federally guaranteed student loans under the FFEL program. FFEL loans, which were originated by private lenders, were phased out as of July 1, 2010 pursuant to HCERA. As of July 1, 2010, all new Title IV Program student loans (other than the Perkins loans) are administered under the DL program, in which the federal government lends directly to students. Because all Title IV Program student loans (other than the Perkins loans) are now processed under the DL program, any processing disruptions by ED may impact our students’ ability to obtain student loans on a timely basis. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the DL program, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of ED to process the increased volume of Direct Loans on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected. An increase in the regulatory burden on the providers of private loans to our students could increase the cost of borrowing for our students, which could reduce our student population and have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The reauthorization of the HEA in 2008 and related regulations place significant new restrictions on the relationships between institutions and the providers of private loans, and require that certain specific terms and disclosures accompany such loans. This increased regulatory burden, coupled with recent adverse market conditions for student loans, including the loss of the guarantee provided by the FFEL program and lenders’ increasing difficulties in reselling or syndicating student loan portfolios, have resulted, and could continue to result, in 28 Table of Contents providers of private loans reducing the availability of or increasing the costs associated with providing private loans to postsecondary students. In particular, loans to students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based private loans have become increasingly difficult to obtain. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in our education programs. If any of these scenarios were to occur, our students’ ability to finance their education could be adversely affected and our student population could decrease, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Limited opportunities for private alternative student loans for our students could increase the need for institutional funding, which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current state of the national economy and generalized lending crisis has led to a contracted lending environment, resulting in limited lender choices for students who need a private alternative loan to meet gaps between Title IV Program funding and cost of education. Further, lender underwriting criteria has been much more stringent, resulting in fewer prospective borrowers being approved for their loans. As lenders seek to reduce their risk on portfolios of new alternative loans, we have seen many lenders move to shift their target markets exclusively to four-year baccalaureate degree schools. We currently have a list of three private unaffiliated alternative loan providers to assist new borrowers in selecting a lender, with two of these lenders providing the vast majority of our private alternative student loans. If these lenders decided to decline to lend to students attending our schools, and we were not able to find alternative lenders, the demand for our proprietary loan program could increase, requiring us to devote greater than planned resources which could have a material impact on our revenues, results of operations, cash flows from operations and financial position. If our schools do not maintain their state authorizations, they may not operate or participate in Title IV Programs. A school that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant education agency of the state in which it is located. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among states. State authorization is also required for students to be eligible for funding under Title IV Programs. Loss of state authorization by any of our schools from the education agency of the state in which the school is located would end that school’s eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school. If our schools do not maintain their accreditation, they may not participate in Title IV Programs. A school must be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by ED in order to participate in Title IV Programs. Loss of accreditation by any of our schools would end that school’s participation in Title IV Programs and could cause us to close the school. Our schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if the percentage of their revenue derived from those programs is too high which could reduce our student population. Under the “90/10 Rule,” a for-profit institution loses its eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if it derives more than 90% of its revenue from those programs for two consecutive institutional fiscal years, under a cash-basis calculation mandated by ED. The period of ineligibility covers at least the next two succeeding fiscal years, and any Title IV Program funds already received by the institution and its students during the period of ineligibility would have to be returned to ED or the applicable lender. If an institution exceeds the 90% level for a single year, ED will place the institution on provisional certification for a period of at least two years. If we are placed on provisional certification status for any reason, ED may more closely view any application we file for recertification, new locations, new educational programs, acquisitions of other schools, increase in degree level or other significant changes. Further, for an institution that is provisionally certified, ED may revoke the institution’s certification without advance notice or advance opportunity to challenge the action. In our 2010 fiscal year, under the regulatory formula prescribed by ED, none of our institutions derived more than 77% of its revenues from Title IV Programs. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs, such a loss would 29 Table of Contents adversely affect our students’ access to the Title IV Program funds they need to pay their educational expenses, which could reduce our student population. Our schools may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs if their student loan default rates are too high, which could reduce our student population. An institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV Programs if its former students default on the repayment of their federal student loans in excess of specified levels. Based upon the most recent student loan default rates published by ED, none of our institutions has student loan default rates that exceed the specified levels. If any of our institutions loses eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs because of high student loan default rates, such a loss would adversely affect our students’ access to various Title IV Program funds which could reduce our student population. If we or our schools do not meet the financial responsibility standards prescribed by ED, we may be required to post letters of credit or our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs could be terminated or limited which could reduce our student population or impact our cash flow. To participate in Title IV Programs, an institution must satisfy specific measures of financial responsibility prescribed by ED or post a letter of credit in favor of ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in Title IV Programs. The operating conditions that may be placed on a school that does not meet the standards of financial responsibility include being transferred from the advance payment method of receiving Title IV Program funds to either the reimbursement or the heightened cash monitoring system, which could result in a significant delay in the institution’s receipt of those funds or increased administrative costs relating to those funds. We are not currently required to post a letter of credit on behalf of any of our schools and are not subject to additional operating conditions. We may be required to post letters of credit in the future, which could increase our costs of regulatory compliance, or change the timing of receipt of Title IV Program funds. Our inability to obtain a required letter of credit or the imposition of other limitations on our participation in Title IV Programs could limit our students’ access to various Title IV Program funds, which could reduce our student population or impact our cash flow. Failure to demonstrate “administrative capability” to ED may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs. ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in Title IV Programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all Title IV Program regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer Title IV Programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • administer the Title IV Programs with adequate checks and balances in its system of internal controls over financial reporting; • divide the function of authorizing and disbursing or delivering Title IV Program funds so that no office has the responsibility for both functions; • establish and maintain records required under the Title IV Program regulations; • develop and apply an adequate system to identify and resolve discrepancies in information from sources regarding a student’s application for financial aid under Title IV Programs; • do not have a student loan cohort default rate above specified levels; • refer to the Office of the Inspector General any credible information indicating that any applicant, student, employee or agent of the institution has been engaged in any fraud or other illegal conduct involving Title IV Programs; 30 Table of Contents • not be, and not have any principal or affiliate who is, debarred or suspended from federal contracting or engaging in activity that is the cause of debarment or suspension; • provide adequate financial aid counseling to its students; • timely submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations; and • not otherwise appear to lack administrative capability. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, ED may: • require the repayment of Title IV funds; • impose a less favorable payment system for the institution’s receipt of Title IV funds; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in Title IV Programs. On October 29, 2010, ED published revisions to the administrative capability regulations, adding additional provisions related to evaluation of the validity of high school diplomas for establishing high school completion and referencing the revised satisfactory academic progress requirements. If we fail to maintain administrative capability as defined by ED, we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV Programs or have that eligibility adversely conditioned, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational programs. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that has been disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational programs before completing them and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner to ED or the appropriate lender, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of ED, pay interest on the late repayment of funds, or be otherwise sanctioned by ED, which could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the failure to timely return Title IV Program funds also could result in the termination of eligibility to receive such funds going forward or the imposition of other sanctions. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to persons involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. A school participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based on success in enrolling students or securing financial aid to any person involved in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The current law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If we violate this law or do not effectively comply with the October 29, 2010 rules, effective July 1, 2011, which modified the existing regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by ED, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties may conduct compliance reviews, bring claims or initiate litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and lawsuits by government agencies, regulatory agencies and third parties alleging noncompliance with applicable standards. While we are committed to strict compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and accrediting standards, if the results of government, regulatory or third party reviews or proceedings are unfavorable to us, or if we are unable to defend successfully against lawsuits or claims, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, limitations, loss of regulatory approvals or Title IV Program funding, injunctions or 31 Table of Contents other penalties. Even if we adequately address issues raised by an agency review or successfully defend a lawsuit or claim, we may have to divert significant financial and management resources from our ongoing business operations to address issues raised by those reviews or defend those lawsuits or claims. Our business and stock price could be adversely affected as a result of regulatory investigations of, or actions commenced against, other companies in our industry. In recent years, the operations of a number of companies in the education and training services industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. Such scrutiny has increased more over the last few months and we anticipate that trend to continue. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing on the part of such companies have resulted in formal or informal investigations by the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, state governmental agencies and ED. These allegations have attracted adverse media coverage and have been the subject of legislative hearings and regulatory actions at both the federal and state levels, focusing not only on the individual schools but in some cases on the for-profit postsecondary education sector as a whole. These investigations of specific companies in the education and training services industry could have a negative impact on our industry as a whole and on our stock price. Furthermore, the outcome of such investigations and any accompanying adverse publicity could negatively affect our business. Budget constraints in some states may affect our ability to obtain necessary authorizations or approvals from those states to conduct or change our operations. Due to state budget constraints in some of the states in which we operate, it is possible that some states may reduce the number of employees in, or curtail the operations of, the state education agencies that authorize our schools. A delay or refusal by any state education agency in approving any changes in our operations that require state approval, such as the opening of a new campus, the introduction of new programs, a change of control or the hiring or placement of new education representatives, could prevent us from making such changes or could delay our ability to make such changes. The regulations issued on October 29, 2010 may lengthen the time to obtain necessary state approvals and may increase the nature and type of state regulation in such a way as to require us to modify our operations in order to comply with the new requirements which could impose substantial additional costs on our institutions. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students which could reduce our student population and negatively affect our 90/10 Rule calculation. A significant number of states are facing budget constraints that are causing them to reduce state appropriations in a number of areas. Many of those states, including California and Pennsylvania, provide financial aid to our students. These and other states may decide to reduce or redirect the amount of state financial aid that they provide to students, but we cannot predict how significant any of these reductions will be or how long they will last. If the level of state funding for our students decreases and our students are not able to secure alternative sources of funding, our student population could be reduced. Loss of state funding would negatively impact our 90/10 Rule calculation, as this funding is counted in the non-Title IV portion of the ratio, and so such loss would drive up the percentage of revenue attributable to Title IV Programs. In addition, the reduction or elimination of these non-Title IV sources of student funding may adversely affect our 90/10 Rule calculation by increasing the proportion of the affected students’ funding needs satisfied by Title IV programs. This could negatively impact or increase the cost of our compliance with the 90/10 Rule. 32 Table of Contents If regulators do not approve our acquisition of a school that participates in Title IV Program funding or the opening of an additional location, the acquired school and/or the additional location would not be permitted to participate in Title IV Programs, which could impair our ability to operate the acquired school and/or the additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school and/or opening of the additional location. If we acquire a school that participates in Title IV Program funding and/or open an additional location, we must obtain approval from ED and applicable state education agencies and accrediting commissions in order for the school and/or additional location to be able to operate and participate in Title IV Programs. While we would attempt to ensure we will be able to receive such approval prior to acquiring a school and/or opening an additional location, approval may be withheld or postponed due to matters outside of our control. An acquisition can result in the temporary suspension of the acquired school’s participation in Title IV Programs and opening an additional location can result in a delay of the campus’ participation in Title IV Programs unless we submit a timely and materially complete application for certification to ED and ED grants a temporary certification. If we were unable to timely re-establish or establish the state authorization, accreditation or ED certification of the acquired school, our ability to operate the acquired school and/or additional location as planned or to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of that school and/or additional location could be impaired. If regulators do not approve or delay their approval of transactions involving a change of control of our company or any of our schools, our ability to participate in Title IV Programs may be impaired. If we or any of our schools experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state education agencies, our accrediting commission or ED, we or the affected schools must seek the approval of the relevant regulatory agencies. These agencies do not have uniform criteria for what constitutes a change of ownership or control. Transactions or events that constitute a change of control include significant acquisitions or dispositions of our common stock or significant changes in the composition of our board of directors. Some of these transactions or events may be beyond our control. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in receiving, approval of any change of control from ED, our accrediting commission or any state in which our schools are located could impair our ability to participate in Title IV Programs. Our failure to obtain, or a delay in obtaining, approval of any change of control from any state in which we do not have a school but in which we recruit students could require us to suspend our recruitment of students in that state until we receive the required approval. The potential adverse effects of a change of control with respect to participation in Title IV Programs could influence future decisions by us and our stockholders regarding the sale, purchase, transfer, issuance or redemption of our stock. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to effectively fill our existing capacity, we may experience a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins. We have underutilized seating capacity at several of our campuses. Our ongoing efforts to fill existing seating capacity may strain our management, operations, employees or other resources. We may not be able to maintain our current seating capacity utilization rates, effectively manage our operation or achieve planned capacity utilization on a timely or profitable basis. If we are unable to fill our underutilized seating capacity, we may experience operating inefficiencies that likely will increase our costs more than we had planned resulting in a deterioration of our profitability and operating margins. Our proprietary loan program could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Our proprietary loan program enables students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other financial aid and are unable to obtain private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition if they meet certain criteria. Under the terms of the proprietary loan program agreements with a national chartered bank, the bank originates loans for our students who meet our specific credit criteria with the related proceeds to be used exclusively to fund a portion of their tuition. We then purchase all such loans from the bank on a monthly basis and assume all the related credit and collection risk. At September 30, 2010, we had committed to provide loans to our 33 Table of Contents students for approximately $25.6 million and of that amount, there was $21.9 million in loans outstanding. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, we placed $2.0 million, an amount that exceeds the FDIC insurance limits, on deposit with the national chartered bank. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions; compliance with laws applicable to the origination; servicing and collection of loans; the quality of our loan servicers’ performance; a decline in graduate employment opportunities; and the priority that the borrowers under this loan program, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. Federal, state and local laws and public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans under our proprietary loan program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend this student loan program for a variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. We rely on third parties to originate, process and service loans under our proprietary loan program. If these companies fail or discontinue providing such services, our business could be harmed. A small federally chartered national bank with a small market capitalization originates loans under our proprietary loan program. If the bank no longer provides service under the contract, we do not have an alternative bank to fulfill the demand. There are a limited number of national banks that are willing to participate in a program such as our proprietary loan program. The time it could take us to replace the bank could result in an interruption in the loan origination process which could result in a decrease in our student populations. Further, because our $2.0 million deposit at such bank is in excess of the FDIC insurance limits, if such bank were to go out of business or fail, we may lose all or almost all of our deposit. Also, a single company processes loan applications and services the loans under our proprietary loan program. There is a 90-day termination clause in the contract under which they provide these services. If this company were to terminate the contract, we could experience an interruption in loan application processing or loan servicing, which could result in a decrease in our student populations. An increase in interest rates and a tightening of credit markets could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. In recent years, increases in interest rates and a tightening of credit markets have resulted in a less favorable borrowing environment for our students. Much of the financing our students receive is tied to floating interest rates. Therefore, increased interest rates have resulted in a corresponding increase in the cost to our existing and prospective students of financing their studies which has resulted in and could result in reductions in our student population and revenues. Higher interest rates could also contribute to higher default rates with respect to our students’ repayment of their education loans including loans made under our proprietary loan program. Higher default rates may in turn adversely impact our eligibility for Title IV Program participation, which could result in a reduction in our student population. In addition, a tightening of credit markets could adversely impact the ability of borrowers with little or poor credit history, such as many of our students, to borrow the necessary funds at an acceptable interest rate. Increasing fuel prices and living expenses could affect our ability to attract and retain students. Our ability to attract and retain students is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors such as higher fuel prices and living expenses. Affordability concerns associated with increased gas, housing prices and the availability of part-time jobs for students attending classes have made it more challenging and expensive for us to attract and retain students. If we are unable to attract and retain students due to economic factors, our student 34 Table of Contents population may decrease, which could have a material impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Failure on our part to maintain and expand existing industry relationships and develop new industry relationships with our industry customers could impair our ability to attract and retain students. We have extensive industry relationships that we believe afford us significant competitive strength and support our market leadership. These relationships enable us to support undergraduate enrollment by attracting students through brand name recognition and the associated prospect of high-quality employment opportunities. Additionally, these relationships allow us to diversify funding sources, expand the scope and increase the number of programs we offer and reduce our costs and capital expenditures due to the fact that, pursuant to the terms of the underlying contracts with OEMs, we provide a variety of specialized training programs and typically do so using tools, equipment and vehicles provided by the OEMs. These relationships also provide additional incremental revenue opportunities from training the employees of our industry customers. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand our existing industry relationships and to enter into new industry relationships. Certain of our existing industry relationships, including those with American Honda Motor Co. Inc., American Suzuki Motor Corp., Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corp. and Yamaha Motor Corp., USA, are not memorialized in writing and are based on verbal understandings. As a result, the rights of the parties under these arrangements are less clearly defined than they would be were they in writing. Additionally, certain of our existing industry relationship agreements expire within the next six months. We are currently negotiating to renew these agreements and intend to renew them to the extent we can do so on satisfactory terms. The reduction or elimination of, or failure to renew any of our existing industry relationships, or our failure to enter into new industry relationships, could impair our ability to attract and retain students. As a result, our market share and revenues could decrease. Competition could decrease our market share and create tuition pricing concerns. The postsecondary education market is highly competitive. Some traditional public and private colleges and universities and community colleges, as well as other private career-oriented schools, offer programs that may be perceived by students to be similar to ours. Most public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies and other financial sources not available to for-profit schools. Some other for-profit education providers have greater financial and other resources which may, among other things, allow them to secure industry relationships with some or all of the OEMs with which we have relationships or develop other high profile industry relationships or devote more resources to expanding their programs and their school network, all of which could affect the success of our marketing programs. In addition, some other for-profit education providers already have a more extended or dense network of schools and campuses than we do, thus enabling them to recruit students more effectively from a wider geographic area. We may limit tuition increases or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract students or pursue new market opportunities. As a result, our market share, revenues and operating margin may decrease. We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us will not adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis. Prospective employers of our graduates demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. These skills are becoming more sophisticated in line with technological advancements in the automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine industries. Accordingly, educational programs, at our schools must keep pace with those technological advancements. Additionally, the method used to deliver curriculum has been evolving to include on-line delivery. The expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs, and changes in the method in which we deliver them, may not be accepted by our students, prospective employers or the technical education market. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as the industries we serve require or as 35 Table of Contents quickly as our competitors. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements due to unusually rapid technological changes or other factors, our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired and our placement rates could suffer. We have a contract with a third party to transform our automotive and diesel programs curriculum into a blended learning experience that reflects current industry training methods and standards. The blended learning model combines several methodologies for communicating training information and incorporates on-site classes, real-time web-based learning sessions and independent learning and is the standard used by our industry partners to provide continuous technical education. The contract may be terminated by either party with a 30-day notice. If we are not able to effectively and efficiently integrate the transformed curriculum or experience delays in development, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business may be adversely affected by recession in the U.S. or abroad. The U.S. economy and the economies of other key industrialized countries have been in a recession as characterized by reduced economic activity, increased unemployment and substantial uncertainty about their financial services markets. In addition, homeowners in the U.S. have experienced an unprecedented reduction in wealth due to the decline in residential real estate values across much of the country. These events may reduce the demand for our programs among students, the willingness of employers to sponsor educational opportunities for their employees, and the ability of our students to find employment in the auto, diesel, motorcycle or marine industries, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In particular, the consolidation of automotive dealerships may result in a shift of employment opportunities for our graduates into automobile aftermarket service from automotive dealerships where, historically, the placement of our graduates has been concentrated. Due to this shift and the general decline in economic conditions, it has been more difficult to place graduates in desirable dealership technician jobs. In addition, these events could adversely affect the ability or willingness of our former students to repay student loans, which could increase our student loan cohort default rate and require increased time, attention and resources to manage these defaults. We rely heavily on the reliability, security and performance of an internally developed student management and reporting system, and any difficulties in maintaining this system may result in service interruptions, decreased customer service, or increased expenditures. The software that underlies our student management and reporting has been developed primarily by our own employees. The reliability and continuous availability of this internal system is critical to our business. Any interruptions that hinder our ability to timely deliver our services, or that materially impact the efficiency or cost with which we provide these services, or our ability to attract and retain computer programmers with knowledge of the appropriate computer programming language, would adversely affect our reputation and profitability and our ability to conduct business and prepare financial reports. In addition, many of the software systems we currently use will need to be enhanced over time or replaced with equivalent commercial products, either of which could entail considerable effort and expense. Our computer systems as well as those of our service providers are vulnerable to interruption, malfunction or damage due to events beyond our control, including malicious human acts, natural disasters, and network and communications failures. Moreover, despite network security measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautions we have taken, unanticipated problems may nevertheless cause failures in our information technology systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to process information in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain the personnel we need to sustain and grow our business. Our success to date has depended, and will continue to depend, largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers who generally have significant experience with our company and within the technical 36 Table of Contents education industry. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, campus presidents, administrators and corporate management. Due to the nature of our business we face significant competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave us and subsequently compete against us. Furthermore, we do not currently carry “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could impair our ability to successfully manage our business. If we are unable to hire, retain and continue to develop and train our education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. In order to support revenue growth, we need to hire and train new education representatives, as well as retain and continue to develop our existing education representatives, who are our employees dedicated to student recruitment. Our ability to develop a strong education representative team may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to integrate and motivate our education representatives; our ability to effectively train our education representatives; the length of time it takes new education representatives to become productive; regulatory restrictions on the method of compensating education representatives; the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining education representatives; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location educational organization. If we are unable to hire, develop or retain our education representatives, the effectiveness of our student recruiting efforts would be adversely affected. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness and acceptance of our programs among high school graduates and adults seeking advanced training. The awareness of our programs among high school graduates and working adults seeking advanced training is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. Our inability to continue to develop awareness of our programs could reduce our enrollments and impair our ability to increase revenues or maintain profitability. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs: • student dissatisfaction with our programs and services; • diminished access to high school student populations; • our failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing or advertising practices; • our inability to maintain relationships with automotive, diesel, collision repair, motorcycle and marine manufacturers and suppliers; and • availability of funding sources acceptable to our students. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in any quarter may not indicate the results we may achieve in any subsequent quarter or for the full year. Our revenues normally fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our business, principally due to changes in total student population. Student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Historically, our schools have had lower student populations in our third fiscal quarter than in the remainder of our fiscal year because fewer students are enrolled during the summer months. Our expenses, however, do not generally vary at the same rate as changes in our student population and revenues and, as a result, such expenses do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. Such patterns may change, however, as a result of acquisitions, new school openings, new program introductions and increased enrollments of adult students. In addition, our revenues for our first fiscal quarter are adversely affected by the fact that we do not recognize revenue during the calendar year-end holiday break which falls primarily in that quarter. These fluctuations may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by or under the supervision of our principal executive and principal financial officer, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our internal control structure is also designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraud would be detected or prevented before our financial statements could be materially affected. Because of inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that our controls may become inadequate as a result of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with our policies and procedures may deteriorate. If our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, our historical financial statements could require restatement which could negatively impact our reputation and lead to a decline in our stock price. Failure on our part to effectively identify, establish and operate additional schools or campuses could reduce our ability to implement our growth strategy. As part of our business strategy we anticipate opening and operating new schools or campuses. Establishing new schools or campuses poses unique challenges and requires us to make investments in management and capital expenditures, incur marketing expenses and devote other resources that are different, and in some cases greater, than those required with respect to the operation of acquired schools. Accordingly, when we open new schools, initial investments could reduce our profitability. To open a new school or campus, we would be required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting commission approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. In addition, to be eligible for Title IV Program funding, a new school or campus would have to be certified by ED. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify suitable expansion opportunities to maintain or accelerate our current growth rate or that we will be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new schools or campuses. Our failure to effectively identify, establish and manage the operations of newly established schools or campuses could slow our growth and make any newly established schools or campuses more costly to operate than we had planned. We may be unable to successfully complete or integrate future acquisitions. We may consider selective acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to complete any acquisitions on favorable terms or, even if we do, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. Integration challenges include, among others, regulatory approvals, significant capital expenditures, assumption of known and unknown liabilities, our ability to control costs, and our ability to integrate new personnel. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the senior management of the acquired schools, which could decrease the time that they devote to the day-to-day management of our business. If we do not successfully address risks and challenges associated with acquisitions, including integration, future acquisitions could harm, rather than enhance, our operating performance. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. A future acquisition could result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, an increase in interest expense, amortization expenses, goodwill and other intangible assets, charges relating to integration costs or an increase in the number of shares outstanding. These results could have a negative effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows or result in dilution to current stockholders. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which may become impaired and subject to a write-down. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment, which might result from 38 Table of Contents the deterioration in the operating performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in the applicable laws or regulations and a variety of other circumstances. Any resulting impairment charge would be recognized as an expense in the period in which impairment is identified. Our goodwill resulted from the acquisition of our motorcycle and marine education business in 1998. We allocated such goodwill, which totaled $20.6 million, to two of our reporting units that provide the related educational programs. We assess our goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates estimated future cash flows for the next five years and an associated terminal value. Key management assumptions included in the cash flow model include future tuition revenues, operating costs, working capital changes, capital expenditures and a discount rate that approximates our weighted average cost of capital. While actual experience will differ from the amounts included in our cash flow model, we do not believe that a related impairment of our goodwill is reasonably possible in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 