Item 1A. Risk Factors Any invalidation or limitation of our key patents could significantly harm our business. Our patent portfolio contains some patents that are particularly significant to our ongoing revenues and business. If any of these key patents are invalidated, or if a court or an administrative body such as the United States Patent and Trademark Office limits the scope of the claims in any of these key patents, the likelihood that companies will take new licenses and that current licensees will continue to agree to pay under their existing 17 Table of Contents licenses could be significantly reduced. The resulting loss in license fees and royalties could significantly harm our business. As discussed below and in Item 3—Legal Proceedings, we are currently involved in legal proceedings involving some of its key patents. Any adverse rulings relating to the infringement, validity or enforceability of these key patents could significantly harm our business. We are currently in litigation involving some of our key patents. On October 7, 2006, we filed a complaint for patent infringement against Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., or AMD, and Spansion LLC, or Spansion, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging infringement of Tessera’s U.S. Patents 5,679,977, 5,852,326, 6,433,419 and 6,465,893 arising from AMD’s and Spansion’s respective manufacture, use, sale, offer to sell and/or importation of certain packaged semiconductor components and assemblies thereof. We seek to recover damages, up to treble the amount of actual damages, together with attorney’s fees, interest and costs. We also seek other relief, including enjoining AMD and Spansion from continuing to infringe these patents. We have amended our complaint to add as defendants Spansion Inc., Spansion Technology, Inc., Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc. ASE (U.S.) Inc., ChipMOS Technologies, Inc., ChipMOS U.S.A., Inc., Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd, Siliconware USA Inc., STMicroelectronics N.V., STMicroelectronics, Inc., STATS ChipPAC Ltd., STATS ChipPAC, Inc. and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. (BVI). The defendants in this action have asserted affirmative defenses to our patent infringement claims, and some of them have brought related counterclaims alleging that the Tessera patents at issue are not infringed, invalid and unenforceable and/or that Tessera is not the owner of the patents. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. Discovery is ongoing, and trial is currently set for January 28, 2008. An adverse decision in this proceeding could significantly harm our business and financial condition. On March 2, 2006, we issued a request for arbitration with Amkor Technology, Inc., or Amkor, regarding Amkor’s failure to pay royalties under its license agreement with Tessera. On November 1, 2006, the arbitration tribunal issued a provisional timetable specifying a seven-day tribunal hearing starting October 1, 2007. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. An adverse decision in this proceeding could significantly harm our business and financial condition. We are currently, and may in the future be involved in material litigation with our licensees, potential licensees or strategic partners, which could harm our business. Our current legal actions, as described below in Item 3—Legal Proceedings, are examples of significant disputes and litigation that impact our business. Any similar dispute in the future could cause an existing licensee or strategic partner to cease making royalty or other payments to us and could substantially damage our relationship with the licensee or strategic partner on both business and technical levels. Any litigation stemming from such a dispute could be very expensive and may reduce or eliminate our profits. Litigation could also severely disrupt or shut down the business operations of our licensees or strategic partners, which in turn would significantly harm our ongoing relations with them and cause us to lose royalty revenues. Any such litigation could also harm our relationships with other licensees or our ability to gain new customers, who may postpone licensing decisions pending the outcome of the litigation. We are not able to predict the outcome of any of our legal actions and an adverse decision in any of our legal actions could significantly harm our business and financial condition. Moreover, even if we settle our legal actions, significant contingencies will exist to their final resolution, including our receipt of any payments owed and the dismissal of the legal action by the relevant court, none of which are completely within our control. In addition, many semiconductor and package assembly companies maintain their own internal design groups and have their own package design and manufacturing capabilities. If we believe these groups have designed technologies that infringe upon our intellectual property, and if they fail to enter into a license agreement with us or pay for licensed technology, then we may be forced to commence legal proceedings against them. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, our business will suffer. We rely primarily on a combination of license, development and nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our licensees and others may seek to use our technology without the payment of license fees and royalties, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our operating results and increase the likelihood of costly litigation. The growth of our business depends in large part on our ability to convince third parties of the applicability of our intellectual property to their products, and our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights against them. In certain instances, we attempt to obtain patent protection for portions of our intellectual property, and our license agreements typically include both issued patents and pending patent applications. If we fail to obtain patents or if the patents issued to us do not cover all of the claims included in our patent applications, others could use portions of our intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties. We also rely on trade secret laws rather than patent laws to protect other portions of our proprietary technology. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and customers. We cannot be certain that these contracts have not been and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If we fail to use these mechanisms to protect our intellectual property, or if a court fails to enforce our intellectual property rights, our business will suffer. We cannot be certain that these protection mechanisms can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated or challenged. We may not be able to protect our confidential information, and this could adversely affect our business. We generally enter into contractual relationships with our employees that protect our confidential information. The misappropriation of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to timely detect unauthorized use or transfer of our intellectual property and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual obligations and our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. We may be required to continue to undertake costly legal proceedings to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights and this may harm our business. In the past we have found it necessary to litigate to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. We currently are involved in litigation regarding our intellectual property rights, as described below in Item 3—Legal Proceedings, and we expect to be involved in similar litigation in the future. Litigation is inherently uncertain and any adverse decision could result in a loss of our proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities, require us to seek licenses from others, limit the value of our licensed technology or otherwise negatively impact our business. Whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, litigation is costly and diverts our managerial, technical, legal and financial resources from our business operations. The costs associated with the legal proceedings in which we are involved can be substantial and specific costs are unpredictable and not completely within our control, and unexpected increases in litigation costs could adversely affect our operating results. As described below in Item 3—Legal Proceedings, we are currently involved in legal proceedings against a number of different companies. The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable and not completely within our control. While we do our best to forecast and control such costs, the costs may be materially more than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, we 19 Table of Contents may become involved in unexpected litigation with additional companies at any time, which would increase our aggregate litigation costs and could adversely affect our operating results. Our revenues may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce our intellectual property rights or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our technology. However, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our technology adequately against unauthorized third-party use, which could adversely affect our business. Third parties also may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards. Even if we have an agreement that provides for a third party to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations to us. If we cannot or do not license the infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or substitute similar technology from another source, our business could suffer. If the U.S. patent laws and regulations are changed, we could be adversely impacted. Tessera relies on the uniform and historically consistent application of United States patent laws and regulations. Changes to these laws and regulations may occur as a result of decisions and actions of Congress, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and the courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court. Some of these changes may not be advantageous for us, and may make it more difficult to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce our patents against parties using them without a license or a payment of royalties. Any such changes could have a deleterious affect on our licensing program and, therefore, the royalties we receive. We could experience losses due to product liability claims. We sell products that may subject us to product liability claims in the future. Although we carry liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate, product liability claims can be costly and any future product liability claim made against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies, be excluded form coverage under the terms of our policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a product liability loss is covered by our insurance policies, such policies contain substantial retentions and deductibles that we would be required to pay. Our existing insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that presently in effect, or at all. The payment of retentions or deductibles for a significant amount of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of our royalty revenues comes from a few market segments and products, and our business could be harmed if these market segments or products decline. A significant portion of our royalty revenues comes from the manufacture and sale of packaged semiconductor chips for DSP, ASSP, ASIC and memory. In addition, we derive substantial revenues from the incorporation of our technology into mobile phones. If demand for semiconductors in any one or a combination of these market segments or products declines, our royalty revenues may be reduced significantly and our business could be harmed. Moreover, were such a decline to occur, our business could become more cyclical in nature. 20 Table of Contents Our revenue is concentrated in a few customers and if we lose any of these customers our revenues may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2006, revenues from Micron Technology, Inc. and Qimonda AG accounted for 15% and 21% of total revenues, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005 revenues from Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and Texas Instruments, Inc., accounted for 20% and 17% of total revenues, respectively. We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to come from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. If we lose any of these customers or if our revenues from them decline, our revenues may decrease substantially. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have agreements relating to services provided to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to audits relating to compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, debarment from future government contracts, or civil and criminal penalties. In addition, the government may acquire certain intellectual property rights in data produced or delivered under such contracts and inventions made under such contracts. Our financial and operating results may vary which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We currently provide guidance on revenue, expenses and cash taxes on a quarterly and annual basis. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Because our operating results are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly or annual comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate during any period include those listed in this “Risk Factors” section of this report and the following: • the timing and compliance with license or service agreement and the terms and conditions for payment to us of license or service fees under these agreements; • changes in our royalties caused by changes in demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; • the amount of our service revenues; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • delays in our introduction of new technologies or market acceptance of these new technologies through new license agreements; • our failure to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights; 21 Table of Contents • legal proceedings affecting our patents or patent applications; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing technologies; • changes in demand for semiconductor chips in the specific markets in which we concentrate—DSP, ASIC, ASSP semiconductors and memory; • changes in accounting principles or a requirement to treat stock option grants as an operating expense; and • cyclical fluctuations in semiconductor markets generally. It is difficult to predict when we will enter into license agreements. The time it takes to establish a new licensing arrangement can be lengthy. Delays or deferrals in the execution of license agreements may also increase as we develop new technologies. Because we generally recognize a significant portion of license fee revenues in the quarter that the license is signed, the timing of signing license agreements may significantly impact our quarterly or annual operating results. Under our typical license agreements, we also receive ongoing royalty payments, and these payments may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on manufacture or sales of products incorporating our licensed technology. We expect to continue to expand our business rapidly which will require us to increase our operating expenses. We may not be able to increase revenues in an amount sufficient to offset these increased expenditures, which may lead to a loss for a quarterly period. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and other factors, the price at which our common stock will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In future periods, if our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. Technology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility than companies in many other industries in recent years and, as a result, have, on average, been subject to a greater number of securities class action claims. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. Network outages could disrupt our internal operations, which could adversely affect our revenues, customers and stock price. Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unscheduled interruptions to the Company through implementation of Business Continuity Plans, our Company may still be exposed to interruptions due to natural disasters, terrorism or acts of war which are beyond our control. Disruptions to these systems could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to provide services and support to our customers and fulfill contractual obligations. As a result, our results of our operations, financial position, cash flows and stock price could be adversely affected. We recently conducted our yearly evaluation of our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, but we cannot ensure that these practices will satisfy future audits. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required for compliance with the management certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have implemented the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our future evaluations or as to the results of the evaluations. Additionally, there are no assurances that we will be able to continue to comply with the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion in any given period. 22 Table of Contents We have a royalty-based business model, which is inherently risky. Our long-term success depends on future royalties paid to us by licensees. Royalty payments under our TCC licenses are primarily based upon the number of electrical connections to the semiconductor chip in a package covered by our licensed technology, although we do have royalty arrangements in which royalties are paid based upon a percent of the net sales price or in which royalties are paid on a per package basis. We are dependent upon our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: • the rate of adoption and incorporation of our technology by semiconductor manufacturers and assemblers; • the extent to which large equipment vendors and materials providers develop and supply tools and materials to enable manufacturing using our packaging technology; • the demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; and • the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technology. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our licensing agreements, and this may cause us to lose revenues. The standard terms of our license agreements require our licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technology and report this data to us on a quarterly basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming, flawed and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. Our license compliance program randomly audits licensees to independently verify the accuracy of the information contained in their royalty reports in an effort to decrease the likelihood that we will not receive the royalty revenues to which we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements, but we cannot give assurances that the random audits will be effective to that end. Failure by our licensees to introduce products using our technology could limit our royalty revenue growth. Because we expect a significant portion of our future revenues to be derived from royalties on semiconductors that use our licensed technology, our future success depends upon our licensees developing and introducing commercially successful products. Any of the following factors could limit our licensees’ ability to introduce products that incorporate our technology: • the willingness and ability of materials and equipment suppliers to produce materials and equipment that support our licensed technology, in a quantity sufficient to enable volume manufacturing; • the ability of our licensees to purchase such materials and equipment on a cost-effective and timely basis; • the willingness of our licensees and others to make investments in the manufacturing process that supports our licensed technology, and the amount and timing of those investments; and • our licensees’ ability to design and assemble packages incorporating our technology that are acceptable to their customers. Failure by the semiconductor industry to adopt next generation high performance DRAM chips that utilize our packaging technology would significantly harm our business. To date, our packaging technology has been used by several companies for high performance DRAM chips. For example, packaging using our technology is used for DDR2 DRAM and we currently have licensees, 23 Table of Contents including Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd., Qimonda AG, Hynix Semiconductor Inc. and Micron Technology, Inc., who are paying royalties for DRAM chips in advanced packages. DRAM manufacturers are also currently developing next generation high performance DRAM chips, including next generation of DDR referred to as DDR3 and DDR4, to meet increasing speed and performance requirements of electronic products. We believe that these next generation, high performance DRAM chips will require advanced packaging technologies such as CSP. We anticipate that royalties from shipments of these next generation, high performance DRAM chips packaged using our technology may account for a significant percentage of our future revenues. If semiconductor manufacturers do not continue to adopt next generation, high performance DRAM packages using our technology and find an alternate viable packaging technology for use with next generation high performance DRAM chips, or if we do not receive royalties from next generation, high performance DRAM chips that use our technology, our future revenues could be adversely affected. Our technology may be too expensive for certain next generation high performance DRAM manufacturers, which could significantly reduce the adoption rate of our packaging technology in next generation high performance DRAM chips. Even if our package technology is selected for at least some of these next generation high performance DRAM chips, there could be delays in the introduction of products utilizing these chips that could materially affect the amount and timing of any royalty payments that we receive. Other factors that could affect adoption of our technology for next generation high performance DRAM products include delays or shortages of materials and equipment and the availability of testing services. Failure by the semiconductor industry to adopt broadly WLP packaging technology could limit our royalty revenue growth. To date, wafer level packaging technologies have been adopted for a limited number of semiconductor products. To date, our packaging technology has been used by several companies for CMOS image sensor chips principally for use in camera-equipped mobile phones. We believe that such WLP packages will be useful for image sensors in other applications such as personal digital assistants and digital cameras, and for other applications such as MEMS devices. We anticipate that royalties from shipments of chips packaged using our WLP technology may account for a small but increasing percentage of our future revenues. If semiconductor manufacturers do not adopt our WLP technology as quickly as is currently being projected by industry sources or find an alternate viable packaging technology for use with their image sensor and MEMS chips, or if we do not receive royalties from image sensor and MEMS chips that use our technology, our future revenues could be adversely affected. In addition our technology may be too expensive for certain image sensor manufacturers, which could significantly reduce the adoption rate of our WLP packaging technology in image sensor applications. Other factors that could affect adoption of our WLP technology for image sensors and MEMS chips include delays or shortages of materials and equipment. Competing technologies may harm our business. We expect that our technologies will continue to compete with technologies of internal design groups of semiconductor manufacturers and assemblers. These internal design groups create their own packaging solutions, and have direct access to their company’s technical information and technology roadmaps, and have capacity, cost and technical advantages over us. If these internal design groups design around our patents, they may not need to license our technology. These groups may design package technology that is less expensive to implement than ours or provides products with higher performance or additional features. Many of these groups have substantially greater resources, financial or otherwise, than us and lower cost structures. As a result, they may be able to bring alternative package technologies solutions to market more easily and quickly. For instance, certain 24 Table of Contents flip chip technologies are being used by large semiconductor manufacturers and assemblers for a variety of semiconductors, including processors and memory. Another example of a competitive technology is the small format lead frame packages that are also gaining popularity. The companies using these technologies are utilizing their current lead frame infrastructure to achieve cost-effective results. Another example of a competitive technology is the chip-on-board technique to package image sensors. In the future, our licensed technologies may also compete with other package technologies. These technologies may be less expensive than ours and provide higher or additional performance. Companies with these competing technologies may also have greater resources than us. Technological change could render our technologies obsolete, and new, competitive technologies could emerge that achieve broad adoption and adversely affect the use of our intellectual property. If we do not create and implement new designs to expand our licensable technology portfolio, our competitive position could be harmed and our operating results adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from licenses and royalties from a relatively small number of key technologies. We plan to devote significant engineering resources in order to develop new packaging technologies to address the evolving needs of the semiconductor and the consumer and communication electronics industries. To remain competitive, we must introduce new technologies or designs in a timely manner and the market must adopt them. Developments in packaging technologies are inherently complex, and require long development cycles and a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability. We may not be able to develop and market new technologies in a timely or commercially acceptable fashion. Moreover, our currently issued U.S. patents expire at various times from January 25, 2009 through December 29, 2024. We need to develop and patent successful innovations before our current patents expire and our failure to do so could significantly harm our business. If we do not successfully license the technologies we acquire, our competitive position could be harmed and our operating results adversely affected. We also attempt to expand our licensable technology portfolio and technical expertise by acquiring technology or developing strategic relationships with others. These strategic relationships may include the right for us to sublicense technology to others. However, we may not be able to acquire or obtain rights to licensable technology in a timely manner or upon commercially reasonable terms. Even if we do acquire such rights, some of the technologies we invest in may be commercially unproven and may not be adopted or accepted by the industry. Moreover, our research and development efforts, and acquisitions and strategic relationships, may be futile if we do not accurately predict the future packaging needs of the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics industries. Our failure to acquire new technologies that are commercially viable in the semiconductor, consumer and communication electronics industries could significantly harm our business. Some of our license agreements have fixed terms and, in order to maintain our relationships with licensees under such agreements, we will need to renegotiate some of our existing license agreements in the future. Some of our license agreements have fixed terms. We will need to renegotiate license agreements with fixed terms prior to the expiration of such license agreements and, based on various factors including the technology and business needs of our licensees, we may not be able to renegotiate such license agreements on similar terms, or at all. In order to maintain existing relationships with some of our licensees, we may be forced to renegotiate license agreements on terms that are more favorable to such licensees, which could harm our results of operations. If we fail to renegotiate our license agreements we would lose existing licensees and our business would be materially adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Some of our license agreements convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, and we may not receive royalties after that time. Some of our license agreements convert to fully paid-up licenses at the expiration of their terms, either automatically or if the licensee exercises an option to extend the term for an additional royalty payment. We may not receive further royalties from licensees for any licensed technology under those agreements after they convert to fully paid-up licenses because such licensees will be entitled to continue using some, if not all, of our relevant intellectual property under the terms of the license agreements, even if relevant patents are still in effect. A significant conversion of our license agreements to fully paid-up licenses could materially harm our results of operations following such conversion. Our licensing cycle is lengthy and costly and our marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. We generally incur significant marketing and sales expenses prior to entering into our license agreements, generating a license fee and establishing a royalty stream from each licensee. The length of time it takes to establish a new licensing relationship can range from six to 18 months or longer. As such, we may incur significant losses in any particular period before any associated revenues stream begins. We employ intensive marketing and sales efforts to educate materials suppliers, equipment vendors, licensees, potential licensees and original equipment manufacturers about the benefits of our technologies. In addition, even if these companies adopt our technologies, they must devote significant resources to integrate fully our technologies into their operations. If our marketing and sales efforts are unsuccessful, then we will not be able to achieve widespread acceptance of our packaging technology. In addition ongoing litigation could impact our ability to gain new licensees. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may affect our revenues, and as a result, our operating results could be adversely affected. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends heavily upon the volume of production by our licensees, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors. Similarly, our services business relies at least in part upon the outsourcing of design and engineering projects by the semiconductor industry. Semiconductor manufacturers and package assembly companies generally sharply curtail their spending during industry downturns and historically have lowered their spending more than the decline in their revenues. As a result, if we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower revenues from our licensees and service customers, our operating results will suffer and we might experience operating losses. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks and we may have difficulty protecting our intellectual property in some foreign countries. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from licensees headquartered outside of the United States, principally in Asia and Europe. For the year ended December 31, 2006, these revenues accounted for 64% of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, these revenues accounted for 56% of our total revenues. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • international terrorism and anti-American sentiment, particularly in the emerging markets; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; 26 Table of Contents • withholding tax obligations on license revenues that we may not be able to offset fully against our U.S. tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may re-characterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; and • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries. Our intellectual property is also used in a large number of foreign countries. There are many countries, such as China, in which we currently have no issued patents. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater problem for us as our licensees increase their manufacturing in countries which provide less protection for intellectual property. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. Our services business may subject us to specific costs and risks that we may fail to manage adequately which could harm our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from engineering services. Among the engineering services that we offer are customized package design and prototyping, modeling, simulation, failure analysis and reliability testing and related training services. A number of factors, including, among others, the perceived value of our intellectual property portfolio, our ability to convince customers of the value of our engineering services and our reputation for performance under our service contracts, could cause our revenues from engineering services to decline, which would in turn harm our operating results. Moreover, most of our service revenues are derived from engineering services we provide to government agencies and their contractors to enable the development of new packaging technologies. If demand for our services from government agencies declines, due to changes in government policies or otherwise, our service revenues will be adversely affected. Under our services contracts we are required to perform certain services, including sometimes delivering designs and prototypes. If we fail to deliver as required under our service contracts, we could lose revenues and become subject to liability for breach of contract. We provide certain services at below cost in an effort to increase the speed and breadth with which the semiconductor industry adopts our technologies. For example, we provide modeling, manufacturing process training, equipment and materials characterization and other services to assist licensees in designing, implementing, upgrading and maintaining their packaging assembly line. We frequently provide these services as a form of training to introduce new licensees to our technology and existing clients to new technologies, with the aim that these services will help us to generate revenues in the future. We need to monitor these services adequately in order to ensure that we do not incur significant expenses without generating corresponding revenues. Our failure to monitor these services or our design and prototype services adequately may harm our operating results. Because our services sometimes involve the delivery of package designs and prototypes, we may be subject to claims that we infringed or induced the infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights belonging to others. If such a claim were made, we may have to take a license or stop manufacturing the accused packages, which could cause our services revenues to decrease. If we choose not to take a license, we may be sued for infringement, and may incur significant litigation costs in defending against the lawsuit. If we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, we may have to pay damages and could be subject to an injunction preventing us from continuing to provide the services. Any of these outcomes could harm our business. 27 Table of Contents If our prototypes, manufactured packages or products based on our designs are used in defective products, we may be subject to product liability or other claims. Under our service contracts, we may, at times, manufacture packages on a limited basis, deliver prototypes or designs or help to design prototypes or products. If these prototypes, packages or designs are used in defective or malfunctioning products, we could be sued for damages, especially if the defect or malfunction causes physical harm to people. The occurrence of a problem could result in product liability claims and/or a recall of, or safety alert or advisory notice relating to, the product. While we believe the amount of product liability insurance maintained by us combined with the indemnities that we have been granted under these service contracts are adequate, there can be no assurance that these will be adequate to satisfy claims made against us in the future or that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation, and on our ability to attract and retain licensees and customers. We intend to continue to expand our operations which may strain our resources and increase our operating expenses. We plan to continue the expansion of our operations, domestically and internationally, and may do so through both internal growth and acquisitions. We expect that this expansion will strain our systems and operational and financial controls. In addition, we are likely to incur higher operating costs. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and controls. If we do fail to do so, our growth would be limited. Our officers have limited experience in managing large or rapidly growing businesses through acquisitions. Further, our officers have limited experience managing companies through acquisitions and technological changes. In addition, our management has limited experience in managing a public company. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, be difficult to integrate and adversely affect our financial results. We have made several acquisitions and it is our current plan to acquire companies and technologies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such acquisitions could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Our plans to integrate and expand upon research and development programs and technologies initiated at each of our operating locations, including image sensor packaging from our operation in Jerusalem, Israel, wafer level optics and camera technology from our operation in Charlotte, North Carolina, image enhancement technology for digital auto focus and optical zoom from our operation in Tel Aviv, Israel, and microelectronics packaging and system integration from our operation in San Jose, California, may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market. The market may adopt competitive solutions to our products or technologies. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. There are numerous risks with our recent acquisitions of Eyesquad GmbH, Digital Optics Corporation and of certain assets from Shellcase, Ltd. In February 2007, we completed our acquisition of Eyesquad GmbH, a company based in Munich, Germany, and in July 2006, we completed our acquisition of Digital Optics Corporation, a company based in Charlotte, North Carolina. In December 2005, we completed our acquisition of certain equipment, intellectual 28 Table of Contents property and other intangible assets from Shellcase, Ltd., a company based in Israel. These acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • These acquisitions could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. As a result, either acquisition could result in a reduction of net income per share as compared to the net income per share we would have achieved if these acquisitions had not occurred. • Following completion of these acquisitions, we may uncover additional liabilities or unforeseen expenses not discovered during our diligence process. Any such additional liabilities or expenses could result in significant unanticipated costs not originally estimated and may harm our financial results. Impairment charges of acquired assets and goodwill. • The integration of Eyesquad GmbH, Digital Optics Corporation and of the Shellcase, Ltd., assets will be a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customer relations could be damaged. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from either acquisition. • We have incurred substantial direct transaction costs as a result of these acquisitions and anticipate incurring substantial additional costs to support the integration of Eyesquad GmbH, Digital Optics Corporation and the assets of Shellcase, Ltd. The total cost of the integration may exceed our expectations. The way we integrate acquired company technology into our products may not be accepted by consumers. We have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, considerable time and resources to acquiring and integrating new technologies, such as the technologies acquired from Eyesquad GmbH, Digital Optics Corporation and Shellcase, Ltd., into our products. However, if consumers do not accept the way we have integrated this technology, they may adopt competing solutions. In addition, as we introduce new products, we cannot predict with certainty if and when our customers will transition to those new products. If consumers fail to accept new or upgraded products incorporating our technologies, our financial results could be adversely impacted. The market for semiconductors and related products is highly concentrated, and we have limited opportunities to sell our products. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated in that a small number of semiconductor designers and manufacturers account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor products generally, including our products and products incorporating technologies that we may acquire. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry may increase this concentration. Accordingly, we expect that sales of our products, including sales of products and technologies that we acquire, will be concentrated with a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. As we acquire new technologies and integrate them into our product line, we will need to establish new relationships to sell these products. Our financial results depend in significant part on our success in establishing and maintaining relationships with, and effecting substantial sales to, these customers. Even if we are successful in establishing and maintaining such relationships, our financial results will be dependent in large part on these customers’ sales and business results. If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, legal and finance personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. In particular, the services of Dr. McWilliams, our President, Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman 29 Table of Contents of our Board of Directors, who has led our company since May 1999 and has been the Chairman of our board of directors since February 2002, are very important to our business. None of our senior management, key technical personnel or key sales personnel are bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance covering our key personnel. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Moreover, some of the individuals on our management team have been in their current positions for a relatively short period of time. For example, our chief financial officer has been with us for less than 12 months. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. In addition, the initial stock options that were granted to many of our senior management and key employees are fully vested. Therefore, these employees may not have sufficient financial incentive to stay with us, we may have to incur costs to replace key employees that leave, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace departing employees in a timely manner. Many of our senior management personnel and other key employees have become, or will soon become, substantially vested in their initial stock options grants. While we often grant additional stock options to management personnel and other key employees after their hire dates to provide additional incentives to remain employed by us, their initial grants are usually much larger than follow-on grants. Employees may be more likely to leave us after their initial option grant fully vests, especially if the shares underlying the options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the option exercise price. If any members of our senior management team leave the company, our ability to successfully operate our business could be impaired. We also may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. Competition for qualified senior employees can be intense. For example, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our growth and expansion. Further, we must train our new personnel, especially our technical support personnel, to respond to and support our licensees and customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our licensees or customers, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business. Decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with SFAS 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” we began recording charges to earnings for stock-based payments on January 1, 2006. As a result, we have incurred increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. Moreover, difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant stock- based payments to employees in the future. As a result, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could harm our business. We use hazardous substances in the manufacturing and testing of prototype products and in the development of our technologies in our research and development laboratories. We are subject to a variety of local, state, 30 Table of Contents federal and foreign governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances. Our past, present or future failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, and alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other substantial expenses. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under certain statues. The imposition of such liabilities could significantly harm our business. Our corporate headquarters are located in California and, as a result, we are subject to earthquakes and other disasters. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel, which are primarily located in or near our principal headquarters in San Jose, California. San Jose exists on or near a known earthquake fault zone. Should an earthquake or other catastrophes, such as fires, floods, power loss, communication failure or similar events disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could conduct our business. We have business operations located in North Carolina that are subject to natural disasters. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel, some of which are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Should a hurricane or other catastrophes, such a fire, flood, power loss, communication failure or similar event disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could conduct our business. We have research and development facilities in Yokohama, Japan and in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, Israel that subject us to risks that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our research and development facilities in Yokohama, Japan and in Jerusalem and TelAviv, Israel may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to design, develop, test or market certain technologies, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: • security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest; • local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices in the United States; • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; • differing employment practices and labor issues • limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers; and • natural disasters. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, have created uncertainty for companies. These laws, regulations and standards are often subject to varying interpretations. As a result, their application in practice may evolve as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance 31 Table of Contents practices. As a result of our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, we have increased and will likely continue to increase general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our Board members, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 