Risk Factors” section of this report and the following: • the timing of and compliance with license or service agreements and the terms and conditions for payment to us of license or service fees under these agreements; • fluctuations in our royalties caused by first-mover pricing advantages provided to two DRAM manufacturers; • changes in our royalties caused by changes in demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technology; • decrease in our revenues caused by price erosion on high performance camera modules incorporating our imaging and optics technologies; • the amount of our product and service revenues; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • delays in our introduction of new technologies or market acceptance of these new technologies through new license agreements; • our ability to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or the terms of our agreements; • legal proceedings affecting our patents, patent applications or license agreements; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing technologies; • changes in demand for semiconductor chips in the specific markets in which we concentrate—DSP, ASIC, ASSP semiconductors and memory; 21 Table of Contents • changes in demand for semiconductor capital equipment, digital still cameras and other camera-enabled devices including cell phones, security systems and personal computers; • the timing of the conclusion of license agreements; • the time it takes to establish new licensing arrangements could be lengthy; • the timing of meeting the requirements for revenue recognition under accounting principles; • changes in accounting principles; and • cyclical fluctuations in semiconductor markets generally. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, reports from market and security analysts, litigation-related developments, and other factors, the price at which our common stock will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In future periods, if our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following a decline in the market price of their securities. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully run our business. The investment of our cash, cash equivalents and investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At December 31, 2010, we held approximately $69.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and $405.7 million in short-term investments. These investments include various financial securities such as municipal bonds and notes, corporate bonds and notes, commercial paper, treasury and agency notes and bills, money market funds, and bank deposits. The weakened financial markets, originally caused by the sub-prime mortgage crisis in the U.S., has at times adversely impacted the general credit, liquidity, market and interest rates for these and other types of debt securities. Additionally, recent changes in monetary policy by the Federal Open Market Committee may cause a decrease in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar and adversely affect our investment portfolio. The financial market and monetary risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The economic downturn and weakened financial markets could negatively affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Slow economic activity, high unemployment, concerns about inflation and energy costs, decreased business and consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns have contributed to and continue to contribute to a challenging economic environment. This environment has led to reduced customer spending in the wireless communications and semiconductor markets, made it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and has caused businesses to slow spending on our products and services. Our major licensees have experienced reductions in semiconductor sales which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the constraints in the capital and credit markets may limit the ability of our customers to timely borrow and access the capital and credit markets to meet their liquidity needs, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us and reduce their demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations or cash flows. We operate in a highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declining economic conditions, maturing product and technology cycles, 22 Table of Contents and excess inventories. This cyclicality could cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends heavily upon the volume of production by our licensees, which, in turn, depends upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products that use semiconductors. Similarly, our product revenues rely at least in part upon the demand of the semiconductor equipment market. Semiconductor manufacturers and package assembly companies generally sharply curtail their spending during industry downturns, such as in the current global economic downturn, and historically have lowered their spending more than the decline in their revenues. As a result, the impact of the current global economic downturn on our businesses is exacerbated by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. If we are unable to control our expenses adequately in response to lower revenues from our licensees and service customers in the current or any future economic downturn, our operating results may suffer and we may experience operating losses. We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by a reduction in revenues associated with these customers. Even though we are no longer pursuing government or government agency business, we are still subject to various statutes and regulations related to this business. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions such as audit provisions that may not be applicable to private contracts. Although we have performed our obligations under these government contracts, we are subject to audits relating to compliance with the regulations governing these government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations or an adverse audit finding might result in an adjustment to our revenues previously recorded, debarment from future government contracts, and possible civil and criminal penalties. In addition, the government may acquire certain intellectual property rights in data produced or delivered under such contracts and inventions made under such contracts. Future changes in financial accounting or existing taxation standards, rules, practices or interpretation may cause adverse unexpected revenue and expense fluctuations which may impact our reported results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretations by the SEC and various accounting bodies. In addition, we are subject to various taxation rules in many jurisdictions. The existing taxation rules are generally complex, voluminous, frequently changing and often ambiguous. Changes to existing taxation rules, changes to the financial accounting standards such as the proposed convergence to international financial reporting standards, or any changes to the interpretations of these standards or rules may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Recent accounting pronouncements and their estimated potential impact on our business are addressed in Note 3—“Recent Accounting Pronouncements” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The international nature of our business exposes us to financial and regulatory risks that may have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow, and we may have difficulty protecting our intellectual property in some foreign countries. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from licensees headquartered outside of the U.S. We have also expanded our operations outside of the U.S. such as research and development facilities in Japan, Israel, Ireland and Romania to design, develop, test or market certain technologies. International operations are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: • fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies as our revenues are denominated principally in U.S. dollars and a portion of our costs are based in non U.S. dollars; • security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest; 23 Table of Contents • changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment; • regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • withholding tax obligations on license revenues that we may not be able to offset fully against our U.S. tax obligations, including the further risk that foreign tax authorities may re-characterize license fees or increase tax rates, which could result in increased tax withholdings and penalties; • differing employment practices, labor issues and business and cultural factors; • less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the U.S. or other developed countries; and • limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers. Our intellectual property is also used in a large number of foreign countries. There are many countries in which we currently have no issued patents. In addition, effective intellectual property enforcement may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. We expect this to become a greater problem for us as our licensees increase their manufacturing and sales in countries which provide less protection for intellectual property. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to manage growth in our business or if we undertake any restructuring activities or if we dispose of or discontinue any product lines. We plan to continue the expansion of our operations, domestically and internationally, and may continue to do so through both internal growth and acquisitions. This expansion may strain our systems and management, operational and financial controls and resources. In addition, we are likely to incur higher operating costs. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our management, systems and financial controls. We also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. We cannot ensure that we will be able to timely and effectively meet demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers and licensees. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth or we are unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining personnel, our business and operating results will be harmed. From time to time, we may undertake to restructure our business, including the disposition of a business division, or the disposition or discontinuance of a product line. There are several factors that could cause a restructuring, a disposition or a discontinuance to have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These include potential disruption of our operations, the timing of development of our technology, the deliveries of products or services to our customers and other aspects of our business. In addition, such actions may increase the risk of demands for restitution or threats of lawsuits by our customers. In the case of a disposition of a product line, there may be a risk of not identifying a purchaser, or, if identified, the purchase price may be less than the net asset book value for the product line. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer and we may lose employees whom we want to keep. Any restructuring, disposition or discontinuance would require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work. There are no assurances that the restructuring, disposal or discontinuance will reduce our operating expenses. We may also incur other significant liabilities and costs including employee severance costs, relocation expenses, and impairment of lease obligations and long-lived assets. Moreover, we could encounter delays in executing any restructuring plans, which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. 24 Table of Contents Certain disputes regarding our intellectual property may require us to indemnify certain licensees, the cost of which could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. While we generally do not indemnify our licensees, some of our license agreements in imaging and optics provide limited indemnities for certain actions brought by third parties against our licensees, and some require us to provide technical support and information to a licensee that is involved in litigation for using our technology. We expect to agree to provide similar indemnity or support obligations to future licensees. Our indemnity and support obligations could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to indemnify or supply such support to our licensees, a licensee’s development, marketing and sales of licensed imaging and optics products could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could have a material adverse affect on our business operations, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We could experience losses due to product liability claims which could result in substantial costs to us. We sell products and provide services that may subject us to product liability claims in the future. Although we carry liability insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate, product liability claims can be costly and any future product liability claim made against us may exceed the coverage limits of our insurance policies, be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss. A product liability claim in excess of our insurance policies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a product liability loss is covered by our insurance policies, such policies contain substantial retentions and deductibles that we would be required to pay. Our existing insurance may not be renewed at a cost and level of coverage comparable to that presently in effect, or at all. The payment of retentions or deductibles for a significant amount of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flow. If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, legal and finance personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. None of our senior management, key technical personnel or key sales personnel are bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we do not currently maintain key person life insurance covering our key personnel. The loss of any of our senior management or other key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. Moreover, some of the individuals on our management team have been in their current positions for a relatively short period of time. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our management team to work together effectively. Our success also depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales, marketing, legal and finance personnel and on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. Competition for qualified senior employees can be intense. For example, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our growth and expansion. Further, we must train our new personnel, especially our technical support personnel, to respond to and support our licensees and customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our licensees or customers, which could slow our growth or result in a loss of business. Our business operations could suffer in the event of information technology systems’ failures or security breaches. Despite system redundancy and the implementation of security measures within our internal and external information technology and networking systems, our information technology systems may be subject to security breaches, damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, terrorism, and telecommunication failures. Any 25 Table of Contents system failure or security breach could cause interruptions in our operations in addition to the possibility of losing proprietary information and trade secrets. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, we may incur liability or additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. Decreased effectiveness of share-based compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. Since the adoption of the authoritative guidance on share-based payment, we have recorded increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. Difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans or changes to the plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant stock-based compensation to employees in the future. As a result, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. Failure to comply with environmental regulations could harm our business. We use hazardous substances in the manufacturing and testing of prototype products and in the development of our technologies in our research and development laboratories. We are subject to a variety of local, state, federal and foreign governmental regulations relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, manufacture and disposal of toxic or other hazardous substances. Our past, present or future failure to comply with environmental regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines on us, suspension of production, and alteration of our manufacturing processes or cessation of operations. Compliance with such regulations could require us to acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other substantial expenses. Any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous or toxic substances, could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liabilities under certain statutes. The imposition of such liabilities could significantly harm our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have business operations located globally in places that are subject to natural disasters. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel. Our locations may be subject to earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters. Should a hurricane, earthquake or other catastrophe, such a fire, flood, power loss, communication failure or similar event disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which we could conduct our business. Some of our offices are located in states or countries where the local governments may be in financial crisis which may interrupt our business operations and adversely impact our results of operations. We operate our business in many jurisdictions worldwide. Our corporate headquarters are located in the state of California which is facing significant budgetary challenges and large operating deficits. As a result, the state has stopped certain improvement projects and disrupted certain services to its residents, and the new Governor has proposed significant spending cuts and revenue increases to cover the funding shortfall. Our results of operations could be adversely impacted if the state proposes additional taxation or other measures to increase its revenue through tax levies on corporations like us or on its residents, including some of our employees. In addition, we have operations in various countries, including Ireland and Romania, which may be facing financial distress. For example, the government of Ireland has announced an austerity budget and agreed to a borrowing package from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union in an attempt to cut its budget deficit. If the governments of the states or countries where we have business operations cannot provide public services, impose additional tax regulations or levies, or increase their tax examination activities, our business operations may be interrupted and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. 26 Table of Contents We have made and may continue to make or to pursue acquisitions which could divert management’s attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, or be difficult to integrate, which may adversely affect our financial results. We have made several acquisitions, and it is our current plan to continue to acquire companies and technologies that we believe are strategic to our future business. Investigating businesses or technologies and integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. Such activities could divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. Acquisitions could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Our plans to integrate and expand upon research and development programs and technologies initiated at each of our operating locations, including image sensor packaging, wafer-level optics and camera technology from our operation in Charlotte, North Carolina, image enhancement technology for digital auto focus and zoom from our operation in Tel Aviv, Israel, MEMS-based auto focus and shutter solutions from our operation in Arcadia, California, and in-camera image capture for digital photos from our operations in Galway, Ireland, and microelectronics packaging and system integration from our operation in San Jose, California, may result in products or technologies that are not adopted by the market. The market may adopt competitive solutions to our products or technologies. Consequently, we might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. There are numerous risks associated with our acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We have made a number of acquisitions of businesses and technologies in the recent years. These acquisitions are subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to the following: • These acquisitions could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. As a result, these acquisitions could result in a reduction of net income per share as compared to the net income per share we would have achieved if these acquisitions had not occurred. • Following completion of these acquisitions, we may uncover additional liabilities or unforeseen expenses not discovered during our diligence process. Any such additional liabilities or expenses could result in significant unanticipated costs not originally estimated, such as impairment charges of acquired assets and goodwill, and may harm our financial results. • The integration of technologies and personnel, if any, will be a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations if it is not completed in a timely and efficient manner. If our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customer relations could be damaged. In addition, we may not achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from any of these acquisitions. • We have incurred substantial direct transaction costs as a result of these acquisitions and anticipate incurring substantial additional costs to support the integration of these businesses and technologies. The total cost of the integration may exceed our expectations. • Sales by the acquired businesses may be subject to different accounting treatment than our existing businesses, especially related to the recognition of revenues. This may lead to potential deferral of revenues due to new multiple-element revenue arrangements. • We are required to estimate and record fair values of contingent assets, liabilities, deferred tax assets and liabilities at the time of an acquisition. Even though these estimates are based on management’s best effort, the actual results may differ. Under the current accounting guidance, differences between actual results and management’s estimate could cause our operating results to fluctuate or could adversely affect our results of operations. 27 Table of Contents If our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets (such as acquired patents), or equity investments become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. In addition to internal development, we intend to broaden our intellectual property portfolio through strategic relationships and acquisitions. We believe this will enhance the competitiveness and size of our current businesses and diversify into markets and technologies that complement our current businesses. These acquisitions could be in the form of asset purchases, equity investments, or business combinations. As a result, we may have intangible assets which are amortized over their estimated useful lives, equity investments, in-process research and development, and goodwill. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to review our amortizable intangible assets such as patent portfolio and equity investments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or equity investments may not be recoverable include a decline in future cash flows, slower growth rates in our industry or slower than anticipated adoption of our products by our customers. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or equity investments is determined, resulting in an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules, have created uncertainty for companies. These laws, regulations and standards are often subject to varying interpretations. As a result, their application in practice may evolve as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result of our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, we have increased and may continue to increase general and administrative expenses and diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might delay or prevent a change of control transaction and depress the market price of our stock. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Certain of these provisions eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, authorize the board to issue “blank check” preferred stock, prohibit stockholder action by written consent, eliminate the right of stockholders to call special meetings, limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors, and establish advance notice procedures for director nominations by stockholders and the submission of other proposals for consideration at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law which could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years unless specific conditions are met. Any of these provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, including without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 