Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our other filings with the Commission, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any forward-looking statement involves risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. Failure to adequately overcome any of the following challenges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or financial condition. Forward-looking statements involve expectations, judgments and estimates, which, at the time the forward-looking statement was made we deemed to be reasonable. Subsequent events and developments may cause our expectations to change. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so, even if our expectations change. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to draw visitors to our websites and promote our products, including purchased search results from online search engines, e-mail and direct mail. We pay providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, 17 Table of Contents advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites. We promote our products and special offers through e-mail and direct mail, targeted to repeat and potential customers. In addition, we rely heavily upon word of mouth customer referrals. If we are unable to develop or maintain an effective means of reaching small businesses and consumers, the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Purchasers of graphic design services and printed products may not choose to shop online, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers which are necessary to the success of our business. The online market for graphic design and printed products is less developed than the online market for other business and consumer products. If this market does not gain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract customers who have historically purchased printed products and graphic design services through traditional printing operations and graphic design businesses or who have produced graphic design and printed products using self-service alternatives. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or price our services and products more competitively than we currently anticipate in order to attract additional online consumers to our websites and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include: Ÿ concerns about buying graphic design services and printed products without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel; Ÿ the inability to physically handle and examine product samples; Ÿ delivery time associated with Internet orders; Ÿ concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; Ÿ delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and Ÿ inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. We may not succeed in promoting, strengthening and continuing to establish the VistaPrint brand, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. Since our products are sold exclusively through our websites, the success of our business depends upon our ability to attract new and repeat customers to our websites in order to increase business and grow our revenues. For this reason, a primary component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the VistaPrint brand. In addition to the challenges posed by establishing and promoting our brand among the many businesses that promote products on the Internet, we face significant competition in the graphic design and printing markets from printing suppliers who also seek to establish strong brands. If we are unable to successfully promote the VistaPrint brand, we may fail to substantially increase our revenues. Customer awareness of, and the perceived value of, our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brand, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts. A component of our brand promotion strategy is establishing a relationship of trust with our customers, which we believe can be achieved by providing a high-quality customer experience. In order to provide a high-quality customer experience, we have invested and will continue to invest substantial amounts of resources in our website development and technology, graphic design 18 Table of Contents operations, production operations, and customer service operations. We also redesign our websites from time to time to seek to attract customers to our websites. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience is also dependent, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers, third-party carriers and communication infrastructure providers. If we are unable to provide customers with high-quality customer experiences for any reason, our reputation would be harmed and our efforts to develop VistaPrint as a trusted brand would be adversely impacted. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, and, as a result, substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are dependent upon our own printing facilities for the production of printed products sold to our customers and any significant interruption in the operations of these facilities or any inability to increase capacity at these facilities would have an adverse impact on our business. While we historically had relied on an exclusive supply relationship with Mod-Pac Corporation to produce our printed products for the North American market, this exclusive supply arrangement terminated on August 30, 2005. In May 2005, we began shipping products from our own printing facility in Windsor, Ontario, Canada and have been manufacturing 100% of our North American production internally since September 2005. The length of time we have been operating this Canadian facility is limited. In addition, we produce a majority of printed products destined for customers outside of North America at our printing facility in Venlo, the Netherlands. We are continuing to work to ensure that we can satisfy all of our production demand from our facilities, including at periods of peak demand, while maintaining the level of product quality and timeliness of delivery that customers require. If we are unable to meet demand from our own facilities or to successfully expand those facilities on a timely basis to meet customer demand, we would likely turn to an alternative supplier to supplement our production capacity. However, an alternative supplier may not be able to meet our requirements on a timely basis or on commercially acceptable terms. If we are unable to fulfill orders in a timely fashion at a high level of product quality through our facilities and are unable to find a satisfactory supply replacement, our business and results of operations would be substantially harmed. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. We experienced significant operating losses in each quarter from our inception in 1995 through March 1998 and in each quarter from June 1999 through June 2001. As the result of a charge of $21.0 million related to the termination of our exclusive supply agreement with Mod-Pac, we experienced a significant loss in the quarter ended September 30, 2004, which caused a significant loss for the year ended June 30, 2005. If we are unable to produce our products and provide our services at commercially reasonable costs, if revenues decline or if our expenses otherwise exceed our expectations, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Changes in stock based compensation accounting rules have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse affect on our operating results. We use options to acquire our common shares and other equity based awards to attract, incentivize and retain our employees in a competitive marketplace. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, allowed companies the choice of either using a fair value method of accounting for stock awards that would result in expense recognition for all such awards granted, or using an intrinsic value method, as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion, or APB, No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, with a pro forma disclosure of the impact on net income (loss) of using the fair value method of accounting for stock based awards. Prior to our adoption of FASB Statement No. 123(R), “Share Based Payment,” or Statement 123(R), on 19 Table of Contents July 1, 2005, we had elected to apply APB 25 and accordingly we generally did not recognize any expense with respect to employee options to acquire our common shares in periods ended on or prior to June 30, 2005 as long as such options were granted at exercise prices equal to the fair value of our common shares on the date of grant. Statement 123(R) requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial statements. This cost is measured based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued. We adopted Statement 123(R) on July 1, 2005, which is the first day of our 2006 fiscal year. The adoption of Statement 123(R) had an adverse affect on our operating results for each of the three months and fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. We expect that we will continue to use share based compensation awards to attract, incentivize and retain our employees. Therefore, we expect the resulting share-based compensation expense will continue to increase, which will continue to adversely affect our operating results in future periods as compared to periods ended on or prior to June 30, 2005. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate which may lead to volatility in our share price. Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include: Ÿ demand for our services and products; Ÿ our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers; Ÿ our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases; Ÿ business and consumer preferences for printed products and graphic design services; Ÿ our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations; Ÿ currency fluctuations, which affect not only our revenues but also our costs; Ÿ the costs to produce our products and to provide our services; Ÿ our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; Ÿ improvements to the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing; Ÿ costs of expanding or enhancing our technology or websites; Ÿ compensation expense and charges related to our share-based compensation practices; and Ÿ a significant increase in credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office leases and various personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the factors cited above, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common shares may fall. 20 Table of Contents The graphic design and printing markets are intensely competitive and we may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors, which could result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products. The printing and graphic design industries are intensely competitive, with many existing and potential competitors, and we expect competition for online graphic design services and printed products to increase in the future. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. The graphic design and printed product markets traditionally are highly fragmented and geographically dispersed. The increased use of the Internet for online commerce and other technical advances have allowed traditional providers of graphic design services and printed products to improve the quality of their products and services, produce those products and deliver those services more efficiently and reach a broader purchasing public. Current and potential competitors include: Ÿ self-service desktop design and publishing using a combination of (1) software such as Microsoft Publisher, Microsoft Word and Broderbund PrintShop; (2) desktop printers or copiers and (3) specialty paper supplies; Ÿ traditional printing and graphic design companies; Ÿ providers of emerging technologies, such as websites, e-mail and electronic files, which may act as a substitute for printed materials; Ÿ office supplies and photocopy companies such as Office Depot, FedEx Kinko’s, OfficeMax and Staples; Ÿ wholesale printers such as Taylor Corporation and Business Cards Tomorrow International; and Ÿ other online printing and graphic design companies. Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, existing customer and supplier relationships, and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. Many of our competitors work together. For example, Taylor Corporation and Business Cards Tomorrow International sell printed products through office superstores such as OfficeMax, Staples and Office Depot. Some of our competitors who either already have an online presence or are seeking to establish an online presence may be able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. In addition, larger, more established and better capitalized entities may acquire, invest or partner with traditional and online competitors as use of the Internet and other online services increases. Competitors may also seek to develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render many of the products, services and content we offer obsolete or less competitive, which could harm our business and results of operations. Our failure to meet our customers’ price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services has been sensitive to price. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our revenues and net income. We offer free products and services as a means of attracting customers and we offer substantial pricing discounts as a means of encouraging repeat purchases. Such free offers and discounts may not result in an increase in revenues or the optimization of profits. In addition, many external factors, including our production and personnel costs and our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers’ price expectations in any given period, our business and results of operations would suffer. 21 Table of Contents We depend on search engines to attract a substantial portion of the customers who visit our websites, and losing these customers would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many customers access our websites by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google and Yahoo!. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be purchased by advertisers in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract and direct a substantial portion of the customers we serve. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other costly resources to replace this traffic, which, in turn, could reduce our operating and net income or our revenues, prevent us from maintaining profitability and harm our business. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, our revenues could decline and our business may suffer. The cost of purchased search listing advertising is rapidly increasing as demand for these channels continues to grow quickly, and further increases could have negative effects on our profitability. Various private ‘spam’ blacklisting or similar entities have in the past, and may in the future, interfere with our e-mail solicitation and the operation of our websites and our ability to conduct business. We depend on e-mail to market to and communicate with our customers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or ‘spam’. Some of these entities maintain ‘blacklists’ of companies and individuals, and the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals, that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses currently are listed with one or more blacklisting entities despite our belief that our commercial e-mail solicitations comply with all applicable laws. In the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with one or more blacklisting entities. We may not be successful in convincing the blacklisting entities to remove us from their lists. Although the blacklisting we have experienced in the past has not had a significant impact on our ability to operate our websites or to send commercial e-mail solicitations, it has, from time to time, interfered with our ability to send operational e-mails—such as password reminders, invoices and electronically delivered products—to customers and others. In addition, as a result of being blacklisted, we have had disputes with, or concerns raised by, various service providers who perform services for us, including co-location and hosting services, Internet service providers and electronic mail distribution services. There can be no guarantee that we will not continue to be blacklisted or that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our websites, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Interruptions to our websites, information technology systems, production processes or customer service operations as a result of natural disasters, errors in our technology, capacity constraints, security breaches or other causes could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, transaction processing systems, network infrastructure, printing production facilities and customer service operations are critical to our reputation, and our ability to attract and retain customers and to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any future interruptions that result in the unavailability of our websites, reduced order fulfillment performance or customer service operations could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and cause our business and results of operations to suffer. We may also experience temporary interruptions in our business operations for a variety of other reasons in the future, including human error, software errors, power loss, telecommunication failures, fire, flood, extreme weather, political instability, acts of terrorism, war, break-ins and other events beyond our control. In particular, both Bermuda, where substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites is located in a single facility, and Jamaica, the location of most of our customer service and design service operations, are subject to a high degree of hurricane risk and extreme weather conditions that could have a devastating impact on our facilities and operations. Our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults. These errors or design faults may cause our websites to fail and result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and services. In the past, we have experienced delays in website releases and customer dissatisfaction during the period required to correct errors and design faults in our websites that caused us to lose revenue. In the future, we may encounter additional issues, such as scalability limitations, in current or future technology releases. A delay in the commercial release of any future version of our technology, infrastructure and processes could seriously harm our business. In addition, our systems could suffer computer viruses and similar disruptions, which could lead to loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. Our business requires that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the high volume of visits to our websites, particularly during promotional campaign periods. As our operations grow in size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our computer systems and network infrastructure to offer customers enhanced and new products, services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that our revenues will increase. Any failure of our printing production equipment may prevent the production of orders and interfere with our ability to fulfill orders. Substantially all of our production operations are performed in two facilities: our Dutch printing facility serving European and Asia-Pacific markets and our Windsor, Ontario facility serving North American markets. We do not presently have redundant systems in multiple locations or a formal disaster recovery plan. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and printing systems, and because many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions of the production process may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. We do carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur in the event operations at facilities are interrupted, but these policies do not address all potential causes of business interruptions we may experience and any proceeds we may receive may not fully compensate us for all of the revenue we may lose. 23 Table of Contents The occurrence of any of the foregoing could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our customers create products that incorporate images, illustrations and fonts which we license from third parties, and any loss of the right to use these licensed materials would substantially harm our business and results of operations. Many of the images, illustrations, and fonts incorporated in the designs and products we offer are the copyrighted property of other parties used by us under license agreements. If one or more of these licenses were to be terminated, the amount and variety of content available on our websites would be significantly reduced. In such event, we could experience delays in obtaining and introducing substitute materials and substitute materials might be available only under less favorable terms or at a higher cost, or may not be available at all. If we are unable to develop, market and sell products and services beyond our existing target markets and develop new technology that attracts a new customer base, our results of operations may suffer. We have developed technologies and services and implemented marketing strategies designed to attract small business owners and consumers to our websites and encourage them to purchase our products. While small business owners have been the source of our revenue growth and the basis for the expansion of our business to date, we believe we will need to address additional markets to further grow our business. To access new markets, including consumers outside the United States, we expect that we will need to develop, market and sell new products and additional services that address their graphic design and printing needs. We may not be able to expand our graphic design services or create new products and services, address any new markets or develop a broader customer base. Any failure to address additional market opportunities could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The development of our business since the launch of the VistaPrint.com website in April 2000 has been attributable to organic growth, but in the future we may choose to undertake acquisitions to further expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. Our business and our customer base have been built through organic growth. A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position and refining the customer experience on our websites. To execute our expansion strategy, we expect that we will selectively pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies or services in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share. We do not have any experience making acquisitions. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services is likely to be expensive and time consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our shareholders and, in the case of debt financings, may subject us to covenants restricting the activities we undertake in the future. If we do complete any acquisitions, we may be unable to operate the acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations could suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies or services could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel including, in particular, Robert S. Keane, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Janet Holian, our Chief Marketing Officer, and Alexander Schowtka, our Chief Operating Officer. None of Mr. Keane, Ms. Holian, or Mr. Schowtka is a party to an employment agreement with VistaPrint, and therefore may cease their employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The loss of one or more of these key employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Although we have generally been successful in our recruiting efforts to date, we face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our reputation would be damaged and our business and results of operations would be harmed. We have rapidly grown to approximately 695 employees as of June 30, 2006, with website operations, offices, production facilities and customer support centers in Bermuda, the United States, the Netherlands, Jamaica and Canada. This growth, combined with the geographical separation of our operations, has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, reporting systems and procedures in at least five countries. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The United States government may substantially increase border controls and impose restrictions on cross-border commerce that may substantially harm our business. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, we derived 71% of our revenue from sales to customers made through our United States website. We produce printed products for our United States customers at our Windsor, Ontario facility. Restrictions on shipping goods into the United States from Canada pose a substantial risk to our business. Particularly since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the United States government has substantially increased border surveillance and controls. We have from time to time experienced significant delays in bringing our manufactured products into the United States as a result of these controls, which has, in some instances, resulted in delayed delivery of orders. If the United States were to impose further border controls and restrictions, impose quotas, tariffs or import duties, increase the documentation requirements applicable to cross border shipments or take other actions that have the effect of restricting the flow of goods from Canada to the United States, we may have greater difficulty shipping products into the United States or be foreclosed from doing so, experience shipping delays, or incur increased costs and expenses, all of which would substantially impair our ability to serve the United States market and harm our business and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We have limited experience in managing operations in multiple countries and if we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our international operations, the growth of our business could be limited. We have a limited history of managing non-United States operations. From March 2001 to January 2004, all of our business was conducted from one facility located in the United States and from our website operations in Bermuda. Over the past three years, we expanded our business to include operations in five different countries. For example, we operate printing facilities in Venlo, the Netherlands and Windsor, Ontario, Canada, a customer support, sales and service, and graphic design center in Montego Bay, Jamaica, website operations in Devonshire, Bermuda and technology development, marketing, finance and administrative offices in Lexington, Massachusetts, United States. We have localized websites to serve many additional international markets. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, we derived 29% of our revenue from our non-United States websites. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our international operations. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We also have limited experience in confronting and addressing the risks and challenges we face in operating in several countries. These risks and challenges include: Ÿ fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may increase the United States dollar cost, or reduce United States dollar revenue, of our international operations; Ÿ difficulty managing operations in, and communications among, multiple locations and time zones; Ÿ local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our business as planned; Ÿ protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers and service providers; Ÿ failure to properly understand and develop graphic design content and product formats appropriate for local tastes; Ÿ restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations; and Ÿ failure of local laws to provide a sufficient degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may impede our ability to build brand identity, cause confusion among our customers, damage our reputation and permit others to practice our patented technology, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our websites features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our websites and our production operations and our trademarks. As of June 30, 2006, we held eight issued United States patents, two issued European patents and one issued French patent and we had more than 30 patent applications pending in the United States. We intend to continue to pursue patent coverage in the United States and other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is justified, appropriate, and cost efficient. There can be no guarantee that any of our pending applications or continuation patent applications will be granted. In addition, there could be infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims brought by third parties with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. For example, administrative opposition proceedings asking the European Patent Office to reconsider the 26 Table of Contents allowance of our European patent relating to certain downloadable document design programs and methods were filed in 2005 and remain pending. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our primary brand is “VistaPrint.” We hold trademark registrations for the VistaPrint trademark in 15 jurisdictions, including registrations in our major markets of the United States, the European Union, Canada and Japan. Additional applications for the VistaPrint mark are pending. Our competitors or other entities may adopt names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. There are several companies that currently incorporate or may incorporate in the future “Vista” into their company, product or service names, such as Microsoft Corporation’s decision to name its next generation operating system “Microsoft Windows Vista.” There could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term VistaPrint or our other trademarks. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we become involved in intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs, expenses or liability, lose our exclusive rights or be required to stop certain of our business activities. A third party may sue us for infringing its intellectual property rights. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. For example, in November 2004 we received a letter from attorneys representing Daniel Keane, the chief executive officer of Mod-Pac, our former North American printing supplier, and the brother of Robert S. Keane, our chief executive officer, claiming an inventorship interest in our issued United States patent relating to printing aggregation. If Daniel Keane were to commence an action to assert this claim and were successful in establishing co-inventorship, he would be able to use, and license to others the right to use, this patent without paying any compensation to us. We have informed Daniel Keane that we believe he does not qualify as a co-inventor, but there can be no guarantee that he will not commence a formal action or that, if commenced, we will be successful in defending against such action. Similarly, Daniel Keane may claim inventorship in our other patents or pending applications relating to printing aggregation and may accordingly obtain an interest in these other patents and pending applications. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts from growing our business. Potential adversaries may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations or may prevent or delay our acquisition by a third party. We have, in the past, received letters from third parties that state that these third parties have patent rights that cover aspects of the technology that we use in our business and that the third parties believe we are obligated to license in order to continue to use such technology. If any parties successfully claim that our sale, use, manufacturing or importation of technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages and attorney’s fees. Additionally, if we are found to have willfully infringed a third parties’ patent, we may be liable for treble damages and a court could enjoin us from performing the infringing activity. Thus, the situation could arise in which our ability to use certain technologies important to the operation of our business would be restricted by a court order. 27 Table of Contents Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a third party patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or maintain profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. We sell our products and services exclusively through our websites and our inability to acquire or maintain domain names for our websites could result in the loss of customers which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. We sell our products and services exclusively through our websites. We currently own or control a number of Internet domain names used in connection with our various websites, including VistaPrint.com and similar names with alternate URL names, such as .net, .de and .co.uk. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. If we lose the ability to use a domain name in a particular country, we would be forced to either incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials and packaging, or elect not to sell products in that country. Either result could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear and subject to change. We might not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name VistaPrint in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. Our revenues may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales or other taxes on purchases. We do not collect or have imposed upon us sales or other taxes related to the products and services we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and value added and similar taxes in certain jurisdictions. However, one or more jurisdictions or countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by one or more governments, including any country in which we do business or sub-federal authorities such as states in the United States, that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing products from us, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, decisions of the United States Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet in the United States. However, implementation of the restrictions imposed by these Supreme Court decisions is subject to interpretation by state and local taxing authorities. While we believe that these Supreme Court decisions currently restrict state and local taxing authorities in the United States from requiring us to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers located within their jurisdictions, taxing authorities could disagree with our interpretation of these decisions. Moreover, a number of states in the United States, as well as the United States Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any state or local taxing jurisdiction were to disagree with our interpretation of the Supreme Court’s current position regarding state and local taxation of Internet sales, or if any of these initiatives were to address 28 Table of Contents the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and result in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future net sales. A substantial amount of our business is derived from customers in the European Union, whose tax environment is also complex and subject to changes that would be adverse to our business. Our business is dependent on the Internet, and unfavorable changes in government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Due to our dependence on the Internet for all of our sales, regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce may have a greater impact on our operations than other more traditional businesses. Existing and future laws and regulations, including the taxation of sales through the Internet, may impede the growth of e-commerce and our ability to compete with traditional graphic designers and printers, as well as desktop printing products. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, as well as restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Bermuda Electronic Transactions Act 1999, the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the U.S. CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we were required to review the content that a customer incorporates into a product and interdict the shipment of products that violate copyright protections or other laws, our costs would significantly increase, which would harm our results of operations. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, our operations do not involve, for the vast majority of our sales, any human-based review of content. Although our websites’ terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to reproduce a given content and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene, or otherwise offensive, objectionable or illegal under the laws or court decisions of the jurisdiction where that customer lives. There is, therefore, a risk that customers may intentionally or inadvertently order and receive products from us that are in violation of the rights of another party or a law or regulation of a particular jurisdiction. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We derive a portion of our revenues from offers made to customers by third parties who have had their business practices challenged in the past, and if the business practices of these third parties are challenged in the future, we would lose revenue and our reputation would be adversely affected. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, we derived less than 10% of our revenues from order referral fees paid to us by merchants for customer click-throughs and orders. In general, these third parties offer memberships in discount programs or similar promotions to customers who have purchased products from us and we receive a payment from the third party for every customer that accepts the promotion. Certain of these third parties have been the subject of consumer complaints and litigation alleging that their enrollment and billing practices violate various consumer protection laws or are otherwise deceptive. For example, various state attorney generals have brought consumer fraud lawsuits against certain of these parties asserting that the parties have not adequately disclosed the terms of their offers and have not obtained proper approval from consumers before billing the consumers’ bank account or credit card. Some consumers have brought individual or class action complaints alleging similar misconduct. We have from time to time received complaints from customers regarding these programs. Claims or actions that may be brought against us in the future related to these relationships could result in our being obligated to pay substantial damages or incurring substantial legal fees in defending claims. These damages and fees could be disproportionate to the revenues we generate through these relationships, which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition, through these relationships, we now offer promotions and memberships that are branded as VistaPrint promotions and memberships which could result in an increased likelihood of our becoming involved in litigation or claims brought against these third parties. Even if we were successful in defending against these claims, such a defense may result in distraction of management. In addition, customer dissatisfaction or a termination of these relationships could have a negative impact on our brand, revenues and profitability. Our practice of offering free products and services could be subject to additional judicial or regulatory challenge which, if successful, would hinder our ability to attract customers and generate revenue. We regularly offer free products as an inducement for customers to try our products. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers—for example, that customers are required to pay shipping and processing charges to take advantage of the free product offer—we have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to claims from individuals or governmental regulators that our free offers are misleading or do not comply with applicable legislation. For example, one of our subsidiaries and our predecessor corporation were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit alleging that the shipping and handling fees we charged in connection with our free business card offer violates sections of the California Business and Professions Code that limit the amount that may be charged for shipping and handling in connection with a prize or gift. In addition, customers have filed complaints with governmental and standards bodies claiming that they were misled by the terms of our free offers. Our free product offers could be subject to challenge in other jurisdictions in the future. If we are subject to further actions in the future, or if we are compelled or determine to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers as the result of any such actions, our business prospects and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches and to address risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant prerequisite to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, a 30 Table of Contents majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly. We retain our customers’ credit card information for a limited time following a purchase of products for the purpose of issuing refunds. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. In addition, under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Non-Bermuda tax authorities may tax some or all of VistaPrint Limited’s income, which would increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. VistaPrint Limited is organized in Bermuda and conducts business through operations within Bermuda. Bermuda does not currently impose income taxes on our operations. Management services are provided to VistaPrint Limited by employees of our United States subsidiary, who are all based in the United States. We have endeavored to structure our business so that all of our non-Bermuda operations are carried out by our local subsidiaries and VistaPrint Limited’s business income is, in general, not subject to tax in these non-Bermuda jurisdictions, such as the United States, Canada, or the Netherlands. VistaPrint Limited has filed tax returns on the basis that it is not engaged in business in these non-Bermuda jurisdictions. Many countries’ tax laws, including but not limited to United States tax law, do not clearly define activities that constitute being engaged in a business in that country. The tax authorities in these countries could contend that some or all of VistaPrint Limited’s income should be subject to income or other tax or subject to withholding tax. If VistaPrint Limited’s income is taxed in jurisdictions other than Bermuda, such taxes will increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. United States corporations are subject to United States federal income tax on the basis of their worldwide income. Foreign corporations generally are subject to United States federal income tax only on income that has a sufficient nexus to the United States. On October 22, 2004, the United States enacted the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, or the AJCA. Under the AJCA, foreign corporations that after March 4, 2003 complete the acquisition of substantially all of the properties of a United States corporation and that meet certain ownership, operational and other tests are treated as United States corporations for United States federal income tax purposes and, therefore, are subject to United States federal income tax on their worldwide income. The AJCA grants broad regulatory authority to the Secretary of the Treasury to provide regulations as may be appropriate to determine whether a foreign corporation is treated as a United States corporation. We do not believe that the relevant provisions of the AJCA as currently enacted apply to VistaPrint Limited, but there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain any such challenge. A successful challenge could result in VistaPrint Limited being subject to tax in the United 31 Table of Contents States on its worldwide income, which would increase our effective rate of tax and adversely affect our earnings. Regardless of the application of AJCA to VistaPrint Limited, the Internal Revenue Service could assert that an insufficient amount of tax was paid to the United States federal government in connection with the formation of VistaPrint Limited, such that additional federal income tax is due currently, and potentially on an ongoing basis for years subsequent to the formation. A successful assertion of this position by the Internal Revenue Service could result in an overall tax rate substantially higher than the rate reflected in our financial statements. Our intercompany arrangements may be challenged, resulting in higher taxes or penalties and an adverse effect on our earnings. We operate pursuant to written service and related agreements, which we also refer to as transfer pricing agreements, among VistaPrint Limited and its subsidiaries. These agreements establish transfer prices for printing, marketing, management, technology development and other services performed for VistaPrint Limited. Transfer prices are prices that one company in a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms’ length. With the exception of our Dutch operations, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities and no official authority in any other country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms’ length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices. A reallocation of income from a lower tax jurisdiction to a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. Changes in laws and regulations may require us to change our transfer pricings or operating procedures. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess penalties, it would result in a higher tax liability to us, which would adversely affect our earnings. We will pay taxes even if we are not profitable on a consolidated basis which would cause increased losses and further harm to our results of operations. The intercompany service and related agreements among VistaPrint Limited and our direct and indirect subsidiaries in general guarantee that the subsidiaries realize profits. As a result, even if the VistaPrint group is not profitable on a consolidated basis, the majority of our subsidiaries will be profitable and incur income taxes in their respective jurisdictions. If we are unprofitable on a consolidated basis, as has been the case in some prior periods, this structure will increase our consolidated losses and further harm our results of operations. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company for United States tax purposes, which may subject United States shareholders to adverse tax consequences. If our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed levels provided by law for any taxable year, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are treated as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our common shares would be subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their common shares. Under the PFIC rules, unless U.S. holders make an election 32 Table of Contents available under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common shares. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the tax year ended June 30, 2006 and we expect that we will not become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, whether we are treated as a PFIC depends on questions of fact as to our assets and revenues that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a PFIC for our current tax year or for any subsequent year. If a United States shareholder acquires 10% or more of our common shares, it may be subject to increased United States taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation that is a “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if one or more 10% U.S. Shareholders together own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation or more than 50% of the total value of all stock of the corporation on any day during the taxable year of the corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a CFC, and therefore whether the more-than-50% and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, shares owned include shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities and shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. For taxable years in which we are a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more, each of our 10% U.S. Shareholders will be required to include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our subpart F income, even if the subpart F income is not distributed to enable such taxpayer to satisfy this tax liability. Based upon our existing share ownership, we do not believe we are a CFC. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda, and the majority of our assets are located outside the United States, which may make it difficult for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda, and over 80% of our assets are located outside of the United States. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Bermuda or in countries, other than the United States, where we have assets based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. In addition, there is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on United States federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the United States where we have assets. 33 Table of Contents Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda. The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. In addition, our bye-laws provide that in the event any governmental authority imposes any liability upon us in respect of any shares registered in our share register, dividends, bonuses or other monies paid to a shareholder or in other circumstances, including liabilities resulting from the death of the shareholder, failure by the shareholder to pay any taxes or failure to pay estate duties, the shareholder will fully indemnify us from all liability arising in connection therewith. Under Bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. Directors and officers may owe duties to a company’s creditors in cases of impending insolvency. Directors and officers of a Bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of a Bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. A director or officer may be liable jointly and severally with other directors or officers if it is shown that the director or officer knowingly engaged in fraud or dishonesty. In cases not involving fraud or dishonesty, the liability of the director or officer will be determined by the Bermuda courts on the basis of their estimation of the percentage of responsibility of the director or officer for the matter in question, in light of the nature of the conduct of the director or officer and the extent of the causal relationship between his conduct and the loss suffered. Our bye-laws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers in their capacity as such in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the Companies Act. Under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, other than those involving fraud, against us or any of our officers or directors. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Bermuda law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our bye-laws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. In addition, by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, these provisions also may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team. These provisions include: Ÿ a classified board of directors; 34 Table of Contents Ÿ the ability of our board of directors to issue undesignated shares without shareholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the share ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors; Ÿ limitations on the removal of directors; and Ÿ advance notice requirements for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings. In addition, the foregoing factors may prevent or delay our acquisition by a third party, even though such transaction may be in the best interests of our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 