Item 1A. Risk FactorsCyclicality in the petrochemical industry has in the past, and may in the future, result in reduced operating margins or operating losses. Our historical operating results reflect the cyclical and volatile nature of the petrochemical industry. The industry is mature and capital intensive. Margins in this industry are sensitive to supply and demand balances both domestically and internationally, which historically have been cyclical. The cycles are generally characterized by periods of tight supply, leading to high operating rates and margins, followed by periods of oversupply primarily resulting from excess new capacity additions, leading to reduced operating rates and lower margins. Moreover, profitability in the petrochemical industry is affected by the worldwide level of demand along with vigorous price competition which may intensify due to, among other things, new domestic and foreign industry capacity. In general, weak economic conditions either in the United States or in the world tend to reduce demand and put pressure on margins. It is not possible to predict accurately the supply and demand balances, market conditions and other factors that will affect industry operating margins in the future. Some olefins industry consultants predict that a significant increase in worldwide ethylene and ethylene derivative capacity may occur within the next decade, with the largest increases in Asia and North America. As a result, our Olefins segment operating margins may be negatively impacted.PVC industry operating rates have dropped from peak levels in the second half of 2006 to lower levels in 2013. In addition, weakness in the U.S. construction markets, which began in the third quarter of 2006, and the subsequent budgetary constraints in municipal spending, have contributed to lower domestic demand for our vinyls products. Looking forward, our Vinyls segment operating rates and margins may continue to be negatively impacted by the slow recovery of U.S. construction markets. 7Table of ContentsWe sell commodity products in highly competitive markets and face significant competition and price pressure. We sell our products in highly competitive markets. Due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and to a lesser extent on performance, product quality, product deliverability and customer service. As a result, we generally are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers. Accordingly, increases in raw material and other costs may not necessarily correlate with changes in prices for these products, either in the direction of the price change or in magnitude. Specifically, timing differences in pricing between raw material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases are negotiated only monthly or less often, sometimes with an additional lag in effective dates for increases, have had and may continue to have a negative effect on profitability. Significant volatility in raw material costs tends to place pressure on product margins as sales price increases could lag behind raw material cost increases. Conversely, when raw material costs decrease, customers could seek relief in the form of lower sales prices. Volatility in costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. Significant variations in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect our results of operations. These costs have risen significantly in the past due primarily to oil and natural gas cost increases. We purchase significant amounts of ethane and propane feedstock, natural gas, ethylene and salt to produce several basic chemicals. We also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in our production processes. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices of raw materials and energy generally follow price trends of, and vary with market conditions for, crude oil and natural gas, which are highly volatile and cyclical. Our results of operations have been and could in the future be significantly affected by increases in these costs. Price increases increase our working capital needs and, accordingly, can adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. In addition, because we utilize the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method of inventory accounting, during periods of falling raw material prices and declining sales prices, our results of operations for a particular reporting period could be negatively impacted as the lower sales prices would be reflected in operating income more quickly than the corresponding drop in feedstock costs. We use derivative instruments in an attempt to reduce price volatility risk on some feedstock commodities. In the future, we may decide not to hedge any of our raw material costs or any hedges we enter into may not have successful results. Also, our hedging activities involve credit risk associated with our hedging counterparties, and a deterioration in the financial markets could adversely affect our hedging counterparties and their abilities to fulfill their obligations to us.In addition, higher natural gas prices could adversely affect the ability of many domestic chemical producers to compete internationally since U.S. producers are disproportionately reliant on natural gas and natural gas liquids as an energy source and as a raw material. In addition to the impact that this has on our exports, reduced competitiveness of U.S. producers also has in the past increased the availability of chemicals in North America, as U.S. production that would otherwise have been sold overseas was instead offered for sale domestically, resulting in excess supply and lower prices in North America. We could also face the threat of imported products from countries that have a cost advantage. External factors beyond our control can cause fluctuations in demand for our products and in our prices and margins, which may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. External factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw material prices, demand for our products, product prices and volumes and deterioration in operating margins. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business and results of operations. Examples of external factors include: •general economic conditions; •the level of business activity in the industries that use our products; •competitor action; •technological innovations; •currency fluctuations; •international events and circumstances; •war, terrorism and civil unrest;•governmental regulation in the United States and abroad; •severe weather and natural disasters; and •credit worthiness of customers and vendors. 8Table of ContentsWe believe that events in the Middle East have had a particular influence on demand, prices and margins in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, a number of our products are highly dependent on durable goods markets, such as housing and construction, which are themselves particularly cyclical. The significant weakening of the U.S. residential housing market since 2006 has had an adverse effect on demand and margins for our products. If the global economy worsens in general, or the U.S. residential housing market worsens in particular, demand for our products and our income and cash flow could be adversely affected to an even greater degree. We may reduce production at or idle a facility for an extended period of time or exit a business because of high raw material prices, an oversupply of a particular product and/or a lack of demand for that particular product, which makes production uneconomical. Temporary outages sometimes last for several quarters or, in certain cases, longer and cause us to incur costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. Factors such as increases in raw material costs or lower demand in the future may cause us to further reduce operating rates, idle facilities or exit uncompetitive businesses. Hostilities in the Middle East or elsewhere and/or the occurrence or threat of occurrence of terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the United States and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in demand for our products, which could adversely affect our net sales and margins and limit our future growth prospects. Volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas could also result in increased feedstock costs. In addition, these risks could cause increased instability in the financial and insurance markets and could adversely affect our ability to access capital and to obtain insurance coverage that we consider adequate or is otherwise required by our contracts with third parties. A deterioration in global economic conditions may have a negative impact on our business and financial condition. A deterioration in global economic conditions may have a negative impact on our business and our financial condition. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the availability of additional financing at cost effective interest rates cannot be assured. A deterioration in global economic conditions could have an impact on the lenders under our revolving credit facility or on our customers and suppliers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Additionally, a deterioration in global economic conditions could result in reduced demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our revenues and profits. Further, reduced levels of accounts receivables and inventory may affect our credit facility borrowing base. Our credit facility allows us to borrow up to (1) 85% of the net amount of eligible accounts receivable, plus (2) the lesser of (a) 70% of the value of the lower of cost or market of eligible inventory, or (b) 85% of the appraised net orderly liquidation value of all eligible inventory, plus (3) 100% of cash held in an account with the agent under the credit facility and subject to a control agreement with the agent, minus (4) such reserves as the agent may establish. Our inability to compete successfully may reduce our operating profits. The petrochemical industry is highly competitive. Historically, there have been a number of mergers, acquisitions, spin-offs and joint ventures in the industry. This restructuring activity has resulted in fewer but more competitive producers, many of which are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we do. Among our competitors are some of the world's largest chemical companies and chemical industry joint ventures. Competition within the petrochemical industry and in the manufacturing of building products is affected by a variety of factors, including: •product price; •technical support and customer service; •quality; •reliability of raw material and utility supply; •availability of potential substitute materials; and •product performance. Changes in the competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operations. These changes could include: •the emergence of new domestic and international competitors; •the rate of capacity additions by competitors; •changes in customer base due to mergers; •the intensification of price competition in our markets; 9Table of Contents•the introduction of new or substitute products by competitors; •the technological innovations of competitors; and •the adoption of new environmental laws and regulatory requirements. Our production facilities process some volatile and hazardous materials that subject us to operating risks that could adversely affect our operating results. We have four major chemical manufacturing facilities: our olefins complex in Lake Charles, our polyethylene complex in Longview, our vinyls complex in Calvert City and our vinyls complex in Geismar. Our operations are subject to the usual hazards associated with commodity chemical and plastics manufacturing and the related use, storage, transportation and disposal of feedstocks, products and wastes, including: •pipeline leaks and ruptures; •explosions; •fires; •severe weather and natural disasters; •mechanical failure; •unscheduled downtime; •labor difficulties; •transportation interruptions; •chemical spills; •discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; •storage tank leaks; •other environmental risks; and •terrorist attacks. According to some experts, global climate change could result in heightened hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico. If this materializes, severe weather and natural disaster hazards could pose an even greater risk for our facilities, particularly those in Louisiana.All these hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, catastrophic damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We could become subject to environmental claims brought by governmental entities or third parties. A loss or shutdown over an extended period of operations at any one of our four major operating facilities would have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain property, business interruption and casualty insurance that we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot be fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from war risks or terrorist acts. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We may pursue acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures and other transactions that may impact our results of operations and financial condition. We seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and create stockholder value through various transactions. These transactions may include various domestic and international business combinations, purchases or sales of assets or contractual arrangements or joint ventures that are intended to result in the realization of synergies, the creation of efficiencies or the generation of cash to reduce debt. To the extent permitted under our credit facility, the indenture governing our senior notes and other debt agreements, some of these transactions may be financed by additional borrowings by us. Although these transactions are expected to yield longer-term benefits if the expected efficiencies and synergies of the transactions are realized, they could adversely affect our results of operations in the short term because of the costs associated with such transactions. Other transactions may advance future cash flows from some of our businesses, thereby yielding increased short-term liquidity, but consequently resulting in lower cash flows from these operations over the longer term. These transactions may not yield the business benefits, synergies or financial benefits anticipated by management. 10Table of ContentsOur operations and assets are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We use large quantities of hazardous substances and generate large quantities of hazardous wastes and emissions in our manufacturing operations. Due to the large quantities of hazardous substances and wastes, our industry is highly regulated and monitored by various environmental regulatory authorities. As such, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety, which govern, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges onto land or waters, the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace, the remediation of contaminated sites, and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. Many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions and/or reduce the likelihood or impact of hazardous substance releases, whether permitted or not. For example, all four of our petrochemical facilities, in Lake Charles, Longview, Calvert City and Geismar, may require improvements to comply with certain changes in process safety management requirements. On April 17, 2012, the EPA promulgated MACT standards for major sources and generally available control technology ("GACT") standards for area sources of PVC production. The rule sets emission limits and work practice standards for total organic air toxics and for three specific air toxics: vinyl chloride, chlorinated di-benzo dioxins and furans ("CD/DF"), and hydrogen chloride and includes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards. In response to four petitions for reconsideration, the EPA initiated reconsideration of the PVC MACT and GACT rules in December 2012. We are currently evaluating the effect these new standards could have on our business. This rule or other new or proposed rules may result in an increase in regulations, which could increase our costs or reduce our production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. In addition, we cannot accurately predict future developments, such as increasingly strict environmental and safety laws or regulations, and inspection and enforcement policies, as well as resulting higher compliance costs, which might affect the handling, manufacture, use, emission, disposal or remediation of products, other materials or hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and we cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities and costs under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These liabilities and costs may be material. Our operations produce greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions, which have been the subject of increased scrutiny both among members of the international community and in the United States. Some scientific studies have suggested that GHG emissions may be contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. In 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for GHG emissions, became binding on the countries that had ratified it. International discussions are underway to develop a treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol after its expiration in 2020. Legislation to regulate GHG emissions has also been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and there has been a wide-ranging policy debate regarding the impact of these gases and possible means for their regulation. Some of the proposals would require industries to meet stringent new standards that would require substantial reductions in carbon emissions. Those reductions could be costly and difficult to implement. The EPA has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources on an annual basis. Further, following a finding by the EPA that certain GHGs represent an endangerment to human health, the EPA finalized a rule to address permitting of GHG emissions from stationary sources under the Clean Air Act's New Source Review Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V programs. This final rule "tailors" the PSD and Title V programs to apply to certain stationary sources of GHG emissions in a multi-step process, with the largest sources first subject to permitting. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to "best available control technology" standards for GHGs that will be established by the states or, in some instances, by the EPA on a case-by-case basis. Several states or geographic regions in the United States have also adopted legislation and regulations to reduce emissions of GHGs. Additional legislation or regulation by these states and regions, the EPA, and/or any international agreements to which the United States may become a party, that control or limit GHG emissions or otherwise seek to address climate change could adversely affect our energy supply and costs, the costs of raw materials derived from fossil fuels, our general costs of production and the demand for our products. The cost of complying with any new law, regulation or treaty will depend on the details of the particular program.We also may face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our facilities or to chemicals that we otherwise manufacture, handle or own. Although these types of claims have not historically had a material impact on our operations, a significant increase in the success of these types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the nature and scope of, and responsibility for, cleanup of contamination at our current and former operating facilities, the costs of transportation and storage of raw materials and 11Table of Contentsfinished products, the costs of reducing emissions and the costs of the storage and disposal of wastewater. The federal CERCLA and similar state laws impose joint and several liability for the costs of remedial investigations and actions on the entities that generated waste, arranged for disposal of the wastes, transported to or selected the disposal sites and the past and present owners and operators of such sites. All such potentially responsible parties (or any one of them, including us) may be required to bear all of such costs regardless of fault, legality of the original disposal or ownership of the disposal site. In addition, CERCLA and similar state laws could impose liability for damages to natural resources caused by contamination. Although we seek to take preventive action, our operations are inherently subject to accidental spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances that may make us liable to governmental entities or private parties. This may involve contamination associated with our current and former facilities, facilities to which we sent wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal and other contamination. Accidental discharges may occur in the future, future action may be taken in connection with past discharges, governmental agencies may assess damages or penalties against us in connection with any past or future contamination, or third parties may assert claims against us for damages allegedly arising out of any past or future contamination. In addition, we may be liable for existing contamination related to certain of our facilities for which, in some cases, we believe third parties are liable in the event such third parties fail to perform their obligations. For further discussion of such existing contamination, see Item 1, "Business—Environmental and Other Regulation."Capital projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We have announced capital expansion plans for our Lake Charles and Calvert City complexes. Expansion projects may be subject to delays or cost overruns, including delays or cost overruns resulting from any one or more of the following: •unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts or materials; •shortages of skilled labor and other personnel necessary to perform the work; •delays and performance issues;•failures or delays of third-party equipment vendors or service providers;•unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials;•work stoppages and other labor disputes;•unanticipated actual or purported change orders;•disputes with contractors and suppliers; •design and engineering problems;•latent damages or deterioration to equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; •financial or other difficulties of our contractors and suppliers; •interference from adverse weather conditions; and•difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions.Significant cost overruns or delays could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for these projects could materially exceed our planned capital expenditures.Our level of debt could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had total outstanding debt of $763.9 million, and our debt represented approximately 24% of our total capitalization. Our annual interest expense for 2013 was $18.1 million, net of interest capitalized of $25.9 million. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our existing or future debt agreements could have significant consequences on our business and future prospects, including the following: •a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt and will not be available for other purposes, including the payment of dividends; •we may not be able to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes; •our less leveraged competitors could have a competitive advantage because they have greater flexibility to utilize their cash flow to improve their operations; •we may be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which would result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; 12Table of Contents•we could be vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business that would leave us less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities and to react to changes in our business and in market or industry conditions; and •should we pursue additional expansions of existing assets or acquisition of third party assets, we may not be able to obtain additional liquidity at cost effective interest rates.To service our indebtedness and fund our capital requirements, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and pay cash dividends will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements may not be realized on schedule and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. In addition, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our credit facility and our senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to: •pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; •make investments and other restricted payments; •incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; •create liens; •permit dividend or other payment restrictions on our restricted subsidiaries; •sell all or substantially all of our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; •engage in transactions with affiliates; and •engage in sale-leaseback transactions. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. However, the effectiveness of many of these restrictions in the indenture governing our senior notes is currently suspended under the indenture because our senior notes are currently rated investment grade by at least two nationally recognized credit rating agencies. Our credit facility also requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio or maintain a specified amount of availability under the credit facility to avoid certain restrictions. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance future business opportunities. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related debt. If a default occurred, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that debt. In addition, any acceleration of debt under our credit facility will constitute a default under some of our other debt, including the indenture governing our senior notes. Regulations concerning the transportation of hazardous chemicals and the security of chemical manufacturing facilities could result in higher operating costs. Targets such as chemical manufacturing facilities may be at greater risk of terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. As a result, the chemical industry responded to the issues surrounding the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 by implementing initiatives relating to the security of chemicals industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals in the United States. Simultaneously, local, state and federal governments put into effect a regulatory process that led to new regulations impacting the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our business or our customers' businesses could be adversely affected because of the cost of complying with these regulations. We may have difficulties integrating the operations of acquired businesses, including the operations of the business we acquired from CertainTeed. If we are unable to integrate or to successfully manage the specialty PVC pipe business we acquired from CertainTeed Corporation and other businesses that we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future, our business, financial condition 13Table of Contentsand results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, synergies, cost savings or other benefits expected from the acquisitions for a number of reasons, including the following: •we may fail to integrate the businesses we acquire into a cohesive, efficient enterprise; •our resources, including management resources, are limited and may be strained if we engage in a significant number of acquisitions, and acquisitions may divert our management's attention from initiating or carrying out programs to save costs or enhance revenues; and •our failure to retain key employees and contracts of the businesses we acquire. Regulations related to "conflict minerals" could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 ("Dodd-Frank Act") contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (collectively, the "Covered Countries"). The term "conflict minerals" encompasses tantalum, tin, tungsten (and their ores) and gold.In August 2012, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted new annual disclosure and reporting requirements applicable to any company that files periodic public reports with the SEC, if any conflicts minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that company. These new annual reporting requirements, which require companies to describe reasonable country of origin inquiries, due diligence measures, the results of those activities and related determinations, will become applicable beginning in May 2014.Because we have a highly complex, multi-layered supply chain, we may incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. In addition, the implementation of procedures to comply with these requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials, including components, used in our products. Our suppliers (or suppliers to our suppliers) may not be able or willing to provide all requested information or to take other steps necessary to ensure that no conflict minerals financing or benefiting armed groups are included in materials or components supplied to us for our manufacturing purposes. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals necessary to the functionality or production of our products through the procedures we may implement. Also, we may encounter challenges to satisfy customers that may require all of the components of products purchased by them to be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer certification requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier. In addition, since the applicability of the new conflict minerals requirements is limited to companies that file periodic reports with the SEC, not all of our competitors will need to comply with these requirements unless they are imposed by customers. As a result, those competitors may have cost and other advantages over us.The trading price of our common stock may negatively impact us. Volatility in the capital and credit markets may cause downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability. The market value of our common stock is a factor in determining whether our goodwill is impaired. If the market value of our common stock declines significantly, it may result in an impairment of goodwill. A decline in the market value of our common stock could also negatively impact us in other ways, including making it more difficult for us to raise any equity capital. Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impede the manufacture or shipment of products or cause standard business processes to become ineffective, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of information or damage to our reputation. While we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure, network disruption or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow.Our property insurance has only partial coverage for acts of terrorism and, in the event of terrorist attack, we could lose net sales and our facilities. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and other events, our insurance carriers created certain exclusions for losses from terrorism from our property insurance policies. While separate terrorism insurance coverage is available, premiums for full coverage are very expensive, especially for chemical facilities, and the policies are subject to high deductibles. Available terrorism coverage typically excludes coverage for losses from acts of war and from acts of foreign governments as well as nuclear, biological and chemical attacks. We have determined that it is not economically prudent to obtain full terrorism insurance, especially given the significant risks that are not covered by such insurance. Where feasible we 14Table of Contentshave secured some limited terrorism insurance coverage on our property where insurers have included it in their overall programs. In the event of a terrorist attack impacting one or more of our facilities, we could lose the net sales from the facilities and the facilities themselves, and could become liable for any contamination or for personal or property damage due to exposure to hazardous materials caused by any catastrophic release that may result from a terrorist attack. We will be controlled by our principal stockholder and its affiliates as long as they own a majority of our common stock, and our other stockholders will be unable to affect the outcome of stockholder voting during that time. Our interests may conflict with those of the principal stockholder and its affiliates, and we may not be able to resolve these conflicts on terms possible in arms-length transactions. As long as TTWF LP (the "principal stockholder") and its affiliates (the "principal stockholder affiliates") own a majority of our outstanding common stock, they will be able to exert significant control over us, and our other stockholders, by themselves, will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote. As a result, the principal stockholder, subject to any fiduciary duty owed to our minority stockholders under Delaware law, will be able to control all matters affecting us (some of which may present conflicts of interest), including: •the composition of our board of directors and, through the board, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers and the determination of compensation; •any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations or the acquisition or disposition of assets; •our financing decisions, capital raising activities and the payment of dividends; and •amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws. The principal stockholder will be permitted to transfer a controlling interest in us without being required to offer our other stockholders the ability to participate or realize a premium for their shares of common stock. A sale of a controlling interest to a third party may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our business and results of operations because the change in control may result in a change of management decisions and business policy. Because we have elected not to be subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the principal stockholder may find it easier to sell its controlling interest to a third party than if we had not so elected. In addition to any conflicts of interest that arise in the foregoing areas, our interests may conflict with those of the principal stockholder affiliates in a number of other areas, including: •business opportunities that may be presented to the principal stockholder affiliates and to our officers and directors associated with the principal stockholder affiliates, and competition between the principal stockholder affiliates and us within the same lines of business; •the solicitation and hiring of employees from each other; and •agreements with the principal stockholder affiliates relating to corporate services that may be material to our business. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts with the principal stockholder affiliates, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party, particularly if the conflicts are resolved while we are controlled by the principal stockholder affiliates. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the principal stockholder affiliates have no duty to refrain from engaging in activities or lines of business similar to ours and that the principal stockholder affiliates will not be liable to us or our stockholders for failing to present specified corporate opportunities to us. 15Table of ContentsCautionary Statements about Forward Looking Statements The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides safe harbor provisions for forward-looking information. Certain of the statements contained in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this Form 10-K that address activities, events or developments that we expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as "believes," "intends," "may," "should," "could," "anticipates," "expected" or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategies or trends. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot give any assurances that these expectations will prove to be correct. Forward-looking statements relate to matters such as: •future operating rates, margins, cash flow and demand for our products; •industry market outlook; •production capacities; •our ability to borrow additional funds under our credit facility; •our ability to meet our liquidity needs; •our intended quarterly dividends; •future capacity additions and expansions in the industry; •timing, funding and results of the expansion and feedstock conversion programs at our Lake Charles and Calvert City complexes; •results of the new chlor-alkali plant in Geismar; •health of our customer base; •pension plan funding requirements and investment policies; •compliance with present and future environmental regulations and costs associated with environmentally related penalties, capital expenditures, remedial actions and proceedings, including any new laws, regulations or treaties that may come into force to limit or control carbon dioxide and other GHG emissions or to address other issues of climate change; •effects of pending legal proceedings; and •timing of and amount of capital expenditures. We have based these statements on assumptions and analyses in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe were appropriate in the circumstances when the statements were made. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve substantial risks and uncertainties that could significantly impact expected results, and actual future results could differ materially from those described in such statements. While it is not possible to identify all factors, we continue to face many risks and uncertainties. Among the factors that could cause actual future results to differ materially are the risks and uncertainties discussed under "Risk Factors" and those described from time to time in our other filings with the SEC including, but not limited to, the following: •general economic and business conditions; •the cyclical nature of the chemical industry; •the availability, cost and volatility of raw materials and energy; •uncertainties associated with the United States and worldwide economies, including those due to political tensions in the Middle East and elsewhere; •current and potential governmental regulatory actions in the United States and regulatory actions and political unrest in other countries; •industry production capacity and operating rates; •the supply/demand balance for our products; •competitive products and pricing pressures; •instability in the credit and financial markets; •access to capital markets; •terrorist acts; 16Table of Contents•operating interruptions (including leaks, explosions, fires, weather-related incidents, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, transportation interruptions, spills and releases and other environmental risks); •changes in laws or regulations; •technological developments; •our ability to implement our business strategies; and •creditworthiness of our customers. Many of such factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Any of the factors, or a combination of these factors, could materially affect our future results of operations and the ultimate accuracy of the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of our future performance, and our actual results and future developments may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Management cautions against putting undue reliance on forward-looking statements or projecting any future results based on such statements or present or prior earnings levels. Every forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone. 