Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. Risks Related to Our Business We will need additional funds to complete the OVATURE Phase III clinical trial for phenoxodiol and to progress the clinical trial program for triphendiol and NV-143. The actual amount of funds we will need will be determined by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. The factors which will determine the actual amount of funds that we will need to complete the OVATURE Phase III clinical trial for phenoxodiol and to progress the clinical trial programs for triphendiol and NV-143 may include the following: · the number of sites included in the trials; · the length of time required to enroll suitable patients; · the number of patients that participate in the trials and the rate that they are recruited; · the number of treatment cycles patients complete while they are enrolled in the trials; and · the efficacy and safety profile of the product. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on favorable terms we may be required to cease or reduce our operations. Also, if we raise more funds by selling additional securities, the ownership interests of holders of our securities will be diluted. We may not complete our OVATURE Phase clinical III trial on schedule, or at all, or it may be conducted improperly, which will delay or preclude FDA marketing approval and increase costs. The completion of our OVATURE Phase III clinical trial may be delayed or terminated for many reasons, including, but not limited to, if: · we are unable to identify and contract clinical trial sites and clinical investigators at the rate we expect or those sites are delayed from commencing patient recruitment due to regulatory hospital ethics committee approvals or those investigators do not perform to our anticipated patient recruitment schedule or comply with the clinical trial protocol; · patients are not available to enroll at the rate we currently expect, or trial sites are unable to recruit their target patient numbers due to the strict inclusion criteria of the OVATURE protocol which may reduce the patient pool available to participate in the trial; · subjects experience an unacceptable rate or severity of adverse side effects; · third party clinical investigators do not conduct the trial in compliance with Good Clinical Practice and regulatory requirements, or other third parties do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; 23 · our contracted Clinical Research Organization responsible for managing the OVATURE trial fails to provide the contracted services in a timely manner as stipulated in the contract. · one or more Institutional Review Boards suspends or terminates the trial at an investigational site, precludes enrollment of additional subjects, or withdraws its approval of the trial; or · one or more of our clinical investigators withdraws from our trials or deviates from our approved protocol. Our costs will increase if we have material delays in our OVATURE pivotal trial, or if we are required to modify, suspend, terminate or repeat it. If the data from our OVATURE Phase III clinical trial do not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of phenoxodiol to the FDA’s satisfaction, we will not receive FDA approval to market phenoxodiol in the U.S. In 2004, the FDA granted phenoxodiol Fast Track status for patients with recurrent late stage ovarian cancer that is resistant or refractory to platinums and taxanes. More recently we completed an SPA where the FDA reviewed and agreed with the design of a Phase III study of phenoxodiol in combination with carboplatin in women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer (ovarian cancer that does not respond to platinum based anti-cancer agents such as cisplatin). If the FDA concludes, using agreed upon clinical endpoints, that the data from our pivotal clinical trial have failed to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of phenoxodiol to the satisfaction of the FDA, we will not receive FDA approval to market phenoxodiol in the U.S. We cannot assure you that the results of our Phase III trial will be successful. The third-party manufacturers that we rely upon for the production of phenoxodiol for our clinical trials and for future commercial quantities, may not be in compliance with FDA regulatory requirements. The conduct of our clinical trials and approval of our marketing application for phenoxodiol may be delayed or adversely affected if the third-party manufacturers that we rely upon for the production of phenoxodiol fail to comply with FDA’s regulatory requirements for current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. The FDA requires drug manufacturers to establish and maintain quality control procedures for manufacturing, processing and holding drugs and investigational products, and products must be manufactured in accordance with defined specifications. The failure of contract manufacturers to supply investigational product in compliance with the defined specifications for phenoxodiol may delay the completion of our clinical trials. As part of the pre-market approval process, the manufacturer will be inspected by the FDA to ensure compliance with cGMP. The failure of contract manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations may result in a delay or prevent approval of our marketing application. If we do not receive marketing approval, our commercial prospects for phenoxodiol will be impaired. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. 24 If our clinical trials are unsuccessful, our prospects for commercializing phenoxodiol will be impaired and we may be required to cease or reduce our operations. This will have a significant impact on the trading price of our securities. Final approval by regulatory authorities of our drug candidates for commercial use may be delayed, limited or prevented, any of which would adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. Any of the following factors may serve to delay, limit or prevent the final approval by regulatory authorities of our drug candidates for commercial use: · triphendiol and NV-143 are in the early stages of clinical development and we will need to conduct significant clinical testing to prove safety and efficacy before applications for marketing can be filed with the FDA, or with the regulatory authorities of other countries; · data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; · development and testing of product formulation, including identification of suitable excipients, or chemical additives intended to facilitate delivery of our drug candidates; · it may take us many years to complete the testing of other drug candidates, and failure can occur at any stage of this process; and · negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. While we have not encountered any material delays or adverse events from the factors described above to date, we cannot assure you that such delays or adverse events will not be encountered in the future. We have a limited operating history, and we are likely to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage and developmental companies. Although we were incorporated in December 2000, we have only been in operation since May 2002. We have incurred net losses of $51,731,000 since our inception through June 30, 2008, including net losses of $12,410,000, $13,820,000 and $7,386,000 for the years ended June 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. We have not yet commercialized any drug candidates and cannot be sure that we will ever be able to do so, or that we may ever become profitable. We have expanded our clinical trials significantly with the commencement of the OVATURE Phase III clinical trial, which will result in increasing losses and we may continue to incur substantial losses in the future even if we begin to generate revenues from the distribution and sale of phenoxodiol. We may not be able to establish the strategic partnerships necessary to develop, market and distribute phenoxodiol. A key part of our business plan is to establish relationships with strategic partners. We must successfully contract with third parties to package, market and distribute phenoxodiol. We have not yet established any strategic partnerships. 25 Potential partners may not wish to enter into agreements with us due to Novogen’s current equity position as our majority stockholder or our contractual relationships with Novogen. Similarly, potential partners may be discouraged by our limited operating history. Additionally, our relative attractiveness to potential partners and consequently, our ability to negotiate acceptable terms in any partnership agreement, will be affected by the results of our clinical program. For example, if phenoxodiol is shown to have high efficacy against a broad range of cancers, we may generate greater interest from potential partners than if phenoxodiol is demonstrated to be less effective or applicable to a narrower range of cancers. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable licensing or other agreements for the future exploitation of phenoxodiol, including the continued clinical development, manufacture or marketing of phenoxodiol. If we are unable to successfully contract for these services, or if arrangements for these services are terminated, we may have to delay our commercialization program for phenoxodiol which will adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. We have not yet submitted an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, for triphendiol or NV-143 product candidates with the FDA and until an IND becomes effective, we will not be able to perform human clinical trials in the U.S. Although we have conducted two Phase I clinical trials of triphendiol in Australia, we have not yet submitted an IND to the FDA. NV-143 has not yet commenced clinical trials in humans. Until an IND becomes effective, we will not be able to perform human clinical trials of our triphendiol or NV-143 product candidates in the U.S. Approval to begin clinical testing in the U.S. requires submission of: (i) adequate information on the safety and manufacturing of triphendiol or NV-143 to assure the proper identification quality, purity and strength of the investigational product, (ii) summary of pharmacological and toxicological effects, pharmacokinetics (how the drug is absorbed and metabolized) and biological disposition in animals, (iii) the proposed protocol for any planned clinical study, and (iv) a brief description of the overall plan for investigating the product. Although we are preparing an IND for triphendiol for submission to the FDA, we do not know whether or when the IND will become effective. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than phenoxodiol. The development of phenoxodiol and other drug candidates is highly competitive. A number of other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development that are intended for the same therapeutic indications for which phenoxodiol is being developed. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than phenoxodiol and may be commercialized sooner. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, phenoxodiol may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors developing oncology drugs have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than us. These organizations also compete with Novogen, our services provider, to recruit qualified personnel, and with us to attract partners for joint ventures and to license technologies that are competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies or our drug candidates obsolete or non-competitive. 26 We have no direct control over the costs of manufacturing phenoxodiol, triphendiol or NV-143 and increases in these costs would increase the costs of conducting clinical trials and could adversely affect future profitability if these costs increase significantly. We do not intend to manufacture phenoxodiol, triphendiol or NV-143 ourselves and we will be relying on third parties for our supplies of phenoxodiol both for clinical trials and for commercial quantities in the future. Novogen has taken the strategic decision not to manufacture on a large scale Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, or API, for cancer drugs, including phenoxodiol, as these can be more economically supplied by third parties with particular expertise in this area. The contract facilities that have been identified are registered with the FDA, have a track record of large scale API manufacture and have already invested in capital and equipment. We have completed the novation to MEPL of contracts that Novogen had entered into with third parties to validate the developed scalable manufacturing method to ensure that sufficient quantities of phenoxodiol can be manufactured in compliance with the FDA’s current cGMP and to complete the analytical and stability work necessary for a New Drug Application, or NDA, submission for marketing approval. An NDA will be submitted if the planned Phase III study is successful, and approval of the NDA is required to market phenoxodiol. We will need to arrange similar contracts in the future to secure the supply of triphendiol and NV-143. We have no direct control over the costs of manufacturing our product candidates. If the costs of manufacturing increase or if the cost of the materials used increases, these costs will be passed on to us making the cost of conducting clinical trials more expensive. Increases in manufacturing costs could adversely affect our future profitability if we are unable to pass all of the increased costs along to our customers. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research institutions to conduct our clinical trials. We rely on suitable research institutions, of which there are many, to conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance upon research institutions, including hospitals and cancer clinics, provides us with less control over the timing and cost of clinical trials and the ability to recruit patients than if we had conducted the trials on our own. Further, there is a greater likelihood that disputes may arise with these research institutions over the ownership of intellectual property discovered during the clinical trials. If we are unable to reach agreement with suitable research institutions on acceptable terms, or if any resulting agreement is terminated and we are unable to quickly replace the applicable research institution with another qualified institution on acceptable terms, the research could be delayed and we may be unable to complete development, or commercialize phenoxodiol, triphendiol or NV-143, which will adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. This risk is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of human therapeutic products. We have product liability insurance coverage of up to approximately $17.4 million. Although we believe that this amount of insurance coverage is appropriate for our business at this time, it is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and the market for such insurance is becoming more restrictive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities. If we are unable to sufficiently insure against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business development and commercialization efforts. 27 Our rights to develop and exploit phenoxodiol and the anti-cancer compounds triphendiol and NV-143 are subject to the terms and conditions of agreements we have entered into with Novogen. Under these agreements our rights may be terminated under certain circumstances, some of which may be beyond our control. We have licensed the intellectual property in the phenoxodiol technology and the anti-cancer compounds triphendiol and NV-143 from Novogen. Under the terms of the license agreement for phenoxodiol, all forms of administering phenoxodiol for the treatment of cancer, excluding topical applications, are licensed to us through our wholly-owned subsidiary, MEPL. Under the terms of the license agreement for triphendiol and NV-143, all forms of administering drugs containing the anti-cancer compounds triphendiol and NV-143, excluding topical applications, are licensed to us through MEPL. If we fail to meet our obligations under our license agreements, the manufacturing license and supply agreement or the services agreement with Novogen, any or all of these agreements may be terminated by Novogen and we could lose our rights to develop phenoxodiol or anti-cancer drugs containing triphendiol and NV-143. To date, we have no reason to believe that we will be unable to satisfy our obligations under these agreements. In addition, each of these agreements may be terminated immediately by Novogen in the event that MEPL undergoes a change of control without the consent of Novogen. Under the terms of the license agreement for phenoxodiol, the manufacturing license and supply agreement and the services agreement, a “change of control” means a change in control of more than half the voting rights attaching to the shares of MEPL, a change in control of more than half of the issued shares of MEPL (not counting any share which carries no right to participate beyond a specified amount in the distribution of either profit or capital) or a change in control of the composition of the board of directors of MEPL. Under the terms of the license agreement for triphendiol and NV-143, a “change in control” means the acquisition by any person or group of more than half of the combined voting power of MEPL’s then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of MEPL or any merger, consolidation, recapitalization, exchange or tender offer as a result of which a person or a group other than the shareholders of MEPL immediately before the transaction owns after the transaction more than half of the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors MEPL. Each of these agreements may also be terminated if we cease for any reason to be able to lawfully carry out all the transactions required by each respective agreement. Our license rights are fundamental to our business and therefore a loss of these rights will likely cause us to cease operations. The rights granted to us under the license agreements, the manufacturing license and supply agreement and the license option deed with Novogen are fundamental to our business. The license agreement for phenoxodiol grants us the right to make, have made, market, distribute, sell, hire or otherwise dispose of phenoxodiol products in the field of prevention, treatment or cure of cancer in humans by pharmaceuticals delivered in all forms except topical applications. The license agreement for triphendiol and NV-143 grants us the right to make, have made, market, distribute, sell, hire or otherwise dispose of anti-cancer drugs containing the compounds triphendiol and NV-143 in the field of prevention, treatment or cure of cancer in humans by pharmaceuticals delivered in all forms except topical applications. Our business purpose is to develop and commercialize cancer drugs including phenoxodiol and drugs containing the compounds triphendiol and NV-143, which we would be unable to pursue without the rights granted to us under the license agreements. The license option deed grants us an exclusive first right to accept and exclusive last right to match any proposed dealing by Novogen with its intellectual property rights with a third party relating to certain compounds (other than phenoxodiol) developed by Novogen and its affiliates which have applications in the field of prevention, treatment or cure of cancer in humans. The license option deed is important to our business because it allows us to maintain control over the sale by Novogen of complementary as well as potentially competitive intellectual property rights to third party competitors. Any loss of the rights under any of these agreements will likely cause us to cease operations. 28 The success of our product candidates is largely dependent on Novogen’s ability to obtain and maintain patent protection and preserve trade secrets, which cannot be guaranteed. Patent protection and trade secret protection are important to our business and our future will depend, in part on our ability and the ability of Novogen to maintain trade secret protection, obtain patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others both in the U.S. and abroad. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents, or to protect our trade secrets or the trade secrets of Novogen. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention. Novogen has not been involved in any opposition, re-examination, trade secret dispute, infringement litigation or any other litigation or legal proceedings pertaining to the licensed patent rights. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Novogen has applied for patents in a number of countries with respect to the use of phenoxodiol for the treatment, prevention or cure of cancer and methods of production of phenoxodiol. We have licensed both issued patents and pending patent applications from Novogen in relation to these technologies. Novogen has recently been issued a U.S. patent for pharmaceutical compositions comprising phenoxodiol. Novogen has issued patents in the U.S., the United Kingdom, Australia, China, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Singapore, Mexico and the Czech Republic related to phenoxodiol for the treatment of a variety of cancers and has issued patents in the U.S., Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Sweden covering the use of phenoxodiol to prevent or treat skin cancer resulting from ultraviolet damage. Issued Novogen patents in the U.S., Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Mexico and Sweden cover the use of phenoxodiol to treat or prevent UV-induced immunosuppression. In addition, Novogen has issued patents in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa and Turkey relating to methods of production of phenoxodiol. For each of the patent families discussed above, there remain pending patent applications in various other jurisdictions. Novogen’s patent applications may not proceed to grant or may be amended to reduce the scope of protection of any patent granted. The applications and patents may also be opposed or challenged by third parties. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on the ability of Novogen and our ability to obtain and maintain effective patent protection for the technologies underlying phenoxodiol and other compounds, and to successfully defend patent rights in those technologies against third-party challenges. As patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until published or issued and as publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that Novogen was the first to make the inventions covered by its pending patent applications or issued patents or that it was the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Additionally, the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents or their enforceability cannot be predicted. We cannot be sure that, should any patents issue, we will be provided with adequate protection against potentially competitive products. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that should patents issue, they will be of commercial value to us, or that private parties, including competitors, will not successfully challenge our patents or circumvent our patent position in the U.S. or abroad. Claims by other companies that we infringe their proprietary technology may result in liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and patents have been applied for by, and issued to, other parties relating to products competitive with phenoxodiol. 29 Therefore, phenoxodiol and any other drug candidates may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of other parties existing now and in the future. Furthermore, to the extent that we or Novogen or our respective consultants or research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in work performed for us or Novogen, disputes may also arise as to the rights in such intellectual property or in resulting know-how and inventions. An adverse claim could subject us to significant liabilities to such other parties and/or require disputed rights to be licensed from such other parties. We have currently contracted formulation development and manufacturing process development work for phenoxodiol. This work is being conducted to ensure that there is a robust production process which meets the expected commercial quantities of phenoxodiol and that dose formulations are manufactured on a cost effective basis. This process has identified a number of excipients, or additives to improve drug delivery, which may be used in the formulations of phenoxodiol. Excipients, among other things, perform the function of a carrier of the active drug ingredient. Some of these identified excipients or carriers may be included in third party patents in some countries. We intend to seek a license if we decide to use a patented excipient in the marketed product or we may choose one of those excipients that do not have a license requirement. We cannot be sure that any license required under any such patents or proprietary rights would be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may encounter delays in product market introductions, or may find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses may be precluded. We have not conducted any searches or made any independent investigations of the existence of any patents or proprietary rights of other parties. We may be subject to substantial costs stemming from our defence against third-party intellectual property infringement claims. Third parties may assert that we or Novogen are using their proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also have or obtain patents and may claim that technologies licensed to or used by us infringe their patents. If we are required to defend patent infringement actions brought by third parties, or if we sue to protect our own patent rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs and managerial attention may be diverted from business operations even if the outcome is not adverse to us. In addition, any legal action that seeks damages or an injunction to stop us from carrying on our commercial activities relating to the affected technologies could subject us to monetary liability and require us or Novogen or any third party licensors to obtain a license to continue to use the affected technologies. We cannot predict whether we or Novogen would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In the event that Novogen does not comply with its obligations under a grant from the Australian Government under which phenoxodiol was, in part, developed, our rights to use the intellectual property relating to phenoxodiol and developed by Novogen may revert back to the Australian Government. Novogen developed phenoxodiol in part by using funds from the Australian Government under what is known as the START Program. Under the START Program, Novogen must meet certain project development and commercialization obligations. Novogen has met the project development obligations and has received final payment thereon. Novogen believes it is currently in compliance with its commercialization schedule. 30 Although Novogen believes that it has complied with its obligations under the START Program, if the Australian Government disagrees or if Novogen undergoes a change of control without the prior consent of the Australian Government, the Australian Government has a right to demand that intellectual property created during the course of the project funded by the grant be vested back in the Australian Government or demand repayment of the funds paid to Novogen under the program. The Australian Government may then license the intellectual property rights related to phenoxodiol to other parties and may demand other intellectual property rights from Novogen. Any such reclamation by the Australian Government could preclude our use of Novogen’s intellectual property in the development and commercialization of phenoxodiol and we may have to compete with other companies to whom the Australian Government may license the intellectual property. The enforcement of civil liabilities against our officers and directors may be difficult. Most of our officers and directors are residents of jurisdictions outside the U.S. As a result it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the U.S. upon all our officers and directors or to enforce judgments obtained against all our officers and directors or us in U.S. courts. Our results are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Much of our expenditures and potential revenue will be spent or derived outside of the U.S. As a result, fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which we operate may increase our costs or reduce our potential revenue. At present, we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. We are authorized to issue a class of blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue a class of blank check preferred stock with rights potentially senior to those of our common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our shares, or making a change in control of us more difficult. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Novogen As our majority stockholder, Novogen has the ability to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and Novogen’s interests may conflict with ours or our other stockholders’ interests. Novogen beneficially owns approximately 71.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Novogen will have the ability to effectively determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Novogen will have the ability to effectively control our management and affairs. Novogen’s interests may not always be the same as that of our other stockholders. In addition this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our securities by: 31 · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; · discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender, offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or · selling us to a third party. Three of our directors and our secretary and chief financial officer are officers and/or directors of Novogen Limited and other Novogen subsidiaries, which may create a conflict of interest as well as prevent them from devoting their full attention to us. Three of our board members currently serve as board members of Novogen Limited. Simultaneous service as a Novogen Limited director or officer could create, or appear to create, a conflict of interest when such directors are presented with decisions that could have different implications for us and Novogen Limited. Mr. Philip Johnston is the chairman of Novogen Limited, Mr. Christopher Naughton is the managing director of Novogen Limited and Professor Paul John Nestel is a director of Novogen Limited. Mr. David Seaton is the chief financial officer of Novogen Limited. The responsibilities of Messrs. Johnston, Naughton and Seaton and Professor Nestel to Novogen Limited could prevent them from devoting their full attention to us, which could be harmful to the development of our business. We depend on a number of key personnel whose services are provided by Novogen under our services agreement. If we are not able to procure these services in the future, the strategic direction of the clinical development program would be disrupted, causing a delay in our commercialization program. We currently rely on Professor Alan Husband, Novogen Research Director, and Mr. Christopher Naughton, our President and Chief Executive Officer, to provide the strategic direction for the clinical development of phenoxodiol. If we are unable to secure the ongoing services of these key personnel, the commercialization program for phenoxodiol will be disrupted and will cause delays in obtaining marketing approval. Novogen has entered into employment agreements with Professor Husband and Mr. Naughton. Novogen can compete with us. We have no contract, arrangement or understanding with Novogen to preclude it from developing a product which may be competitive with phenoxodiol, triphendiol or NV-143 or to use these compounds for any uses other than anti-cancer applications. Novogen has reserved the intellectual property rights and know-how rights relating to topical applications of these compounds even in the field of cancer. There can be no assurance that Novogen or its subsidiaries will not pursue alternative technologies or product candidates as a means of developing treatments for the conditions targeted by phenoxodiol or any other product candidate which we seek to exploit. We are dependent on Novogen for our personnel. We have no employees. We rely on Novogen and other service companies to provide or procure the provision of staff and other financial and administrative services under our services agreement with Novogen. 32 We believe Novogen has fully complied with the terms of our services agreement. To successfully develop our drug candidates, we will require ongoing access to the personnel who have, to date, been responsible for the development of our drug candidates. The services agreement does not specify a minimum amount of time that Novogen employees must devote to our operations. If we are unable to secure or if we lose the services of these personnel, the ability to develop our drug candidates could be materially impaired. Moreover, if our business experiences substantial and rapid growth, we may not be able to secure the services and resources we require from Novogen or from other persons to support that growth. In the event that Novogen undergoes a change in control while remaining our controlling stockholder, we will become subject to the control and influence of Novogen’s new controlling stockholder who may have views regarding the development of our business that differ from the development strategies we are currently pursuing. In the event that Novogen undergoes a change in control while remaining our controlling stockholder, we will become subject to the control and influence of Novogen’s new controlling stockholder who will have the ability to indirectly determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval through its control of Novogen. This entity may have views regarding the development of our business that differ from the development strategies we are currently pursuing. Such controlling stockholder may cause Novogen to use its influence and voting power to change the direction in which we are developing our business. Such changes may include, but are not limited to, a decreased focus on the development of any of our current drug candidates and an increased focus on the development of alternative drug candidates, which may or may not be targeted to treat cancers. Additionally, this entity may seek to renegotiate the terms of our existing license agreements, manufacturing and supply agreement and services agreement with Novogen. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of the shares of our common stock could be highly volatile and could decline in value and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock could be highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · developments concerning phenoxodiol and our other drug candidates triphendiol and NV-143; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · new products introduced or announced by us or our competitors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · actual or anticipated variations in operating results; · expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; · conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and genomics industries; · changes in the market valuations of similar companies; 33 · the liquidity of any market for our securities; and · additional sales by us or Novogen of shares of our common stock. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. In addition, changes in economic conditions in the U.S., Europe or globally, could impact upon our ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside our control and may result in material adverse impacts on our business or our results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our shares of common stock, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Future sales of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock and cause stockholders to experience dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur. We will have broad discretion over the use of the net proceeds to us from any exercise of outstanding warrants. We will have broad discretion to use the net proceeds to us upon any exercise of outstanding warrants, and you will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors and management regarding the application of these proceeds. Although we expect to use a substantial portion of the net proceeds from any exercise of the warrants for general corporate purposes, including potential payments to Novogen under the terms of the license agreements, potential licensing of other cancer compounds developed by Novogen under the license option deed and potential expansion of the clinical trial program for phenoxodiol to include other forms of cancer, we have not allocated these net proceeds for specific purposes. 34 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 