Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of 25 Table of Contents operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall. Although we have grouped risk factors by category, the categories are not mutually exclusive. Risks described under one category may also apply to another category, and you should carefully read the entire risk factors section, not just any one category of risk factors. Risks Related to Asset-Backed Securitizations and Other Funding Sources We derive a significant portion of our revenue and substantially all of our income from structuring securitization transactions; our financial results and future growth will continue to be adversely affected if we are unable to structure securitizations. Securitization refers to the technique of pooling loans and selling them to a special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity, typically a trust, which issues to investors securities backed by those loans. As of the date of this report, we have provided structural advisory and other services for 38 loan securitizations since our formation in 1991. In connection with past securitizations, we have received compensation in the form of structural advisory fees, residuals and administrative fees for management of the trusts. The amount and timing of the fees we recognize are affected, in part, by the timing, size and structure of the securitization transactions, as well as the composition of loan pools to be securitized, the return expectations of investors and assumptions we make regarding loan portfolio performance, including defaults, recoveries, prepayments and the cost of funding. We derived approximately $320.4 million in revenue from new securitizations in fiscal 2008, and revenue from new securitizations constituted approximately 78% of our total revenue for fiscal 2007. Substantially all of our net income in those fiscal periods was attributable to securitization-related revenue. We did not complete a securitization during the second, third or fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, which contributed to our net loss for each of those quarters, and we do not expect to complete a securitization in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Our securitization volumes materially decreased in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007, and we expect pricing terms in any near-term future securitizations to be substantially less favorable than in the past. We also expect investors to have limited or no demand for subordinate tranches of ABS in securitization transactions, if any, that we may be able to facilitate in the foreseeable future. The inability to access the securitization market, together with the TERI Reorganization, has impacted our relationships, reduced our facilitated loan volume and challenged our business prospects. If we continue to be unable to access the ABS market, our revenues may continue to decline and we may continue to generate net losses, which would further erode our liquidity position. We will need to continue to adapt our business model in order to overcome the challenges we are facing. A number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, have and may continue to adversely affect our securitization activities and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. Our near-term financial performance and future growth depend in large part on our ability to structure securitizations. Several factors have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on both our ability to structure securitizations and the revenue we generate for providing our structural advisory and other services, including the following: •persistent and prolonged disruption or volatility in the capital markets generally or in the private student loan ABS sector specifically, which could continue to restrict or delay our access to the capital markets; •our inability to structure new products or services to meet new demands of clients and borrowers; •continuing degradation of the credit quality or performance of the loan portfolios of the trusts we structure, which could reduce or eliminate investor demand for future securitizations that we facilitate, particularly for subordinate classes of ABS, or result in rating agencies materially 26 Table of Contents adversely modifying their assumptions, ratings or conclusions with respect to the securitization trusts; •rating agency action, including downgrades, of ABS that we have facilitated in the past; •developments in connection with the TERI Reorganization, including rejection by TERI of its guaranty agreements, any further downgrading or withdrawal of ratings assigned to TERI or to securities previously issued in securitizations that we structured, or any occurrence of an event of default with respect to such securities, which could reduce demand for additional securitizations that we structure; •unwillingness of financial guaranty providers to offer credit insurance in the securitizations that we structure or in student loan-backed securitizations generally; •unwillingness of investors to ascribe value to the TERI-guaranteed loan loss reserves or financial guaranties offered by other third parties; •the adequacy of the segregated reserves pledged to each securitization trust as collateral for TERI's guaranty obligations with respect to the loans held by the trust, including the validity and perfection of the trust's security interests and the replenishment of the reserves from recoveries on defaulted loans; •the timing and size of student loan-backed securitizations that other parties facilitate, or the adverse performance of, or other problems with, such securitizations, could impact pricing or demand for our securitizations; •challenges to the enforceability of student loans based on violations of federal or state consumer protection laws and related regulations, or imposition of penalties or liability on assignees of student loans for violation of such laws and regulations; and •changes to bankruptcy laws that change the current non-dischargeable status of education-related loans, which could materially adversely affect recovery rates on defaulted loans. We have actually experienced, or are at particular risk of experiencing in the near term, the first eight factors listed above. A portion of the securities issued since 1998 in securitization transactions that we structured were sold to asset-backed commercial paper conduits. If these or similar asset-backed conduits cease to purchase securities in the securitizations that we structure, we may experience a delay in the timing of our securitizations as we seek to find alternate channels of distribution. The timing of our securitization activities and size and structure of our securitization transactions will greatly affect our quarterly financial results. The variability of our quarterly revenue, operating results and profitability may increase as a result of current conditions in the ABS market and lower levels of facilitated loan volumes. In fiscal 2007, we recognized 35%, 22%, 20% and 23% of our total revenue in the respective quarters of fiscal 2007. We facilitated one securitization in the first, second and third quarters, and two securitizations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Our quarterly revenue varied primarily because of the size of the securitizations that we structured. We facilitated two securitizations in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, but no securitizations in the second, third or fourth fiscal quarters. Recent disruptions and volatility in the ABS market have adversely affected our ability to structure securitizations and will affect the timing, size, structure and profitability of future capital markets transactions. We are uncertain about our ability to complete a securitization in the near-term, and our securitization volumes could materially decrease in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. We expect pricing terms in any near-term future securitizations to be substantially less favorable than in the past. We also expect limited or no investor demand for subordinate tranches of ABS in securitization transactions, if any, that we may be able to 27 Table of Contents facilitate in the foreseeable future. Our loan origination or marketing fees, and the timing, size and structure of any future securitization activities, may also be affected by the seasonality of student loan applications and loan originations. Origination of student loans is generally subject to seasonal trends, with the volume of loan applications increasing with the approach of tuition payment dates. In fiscal 2008, we processed 48% of our total loan facilitation volume in the quarter ended September 30, 2007, and 22%, 25% and 5% of our total loan facilitation volume in the respective successive quarters. We may need to pursue alternatives to securitizations, which may not be available or the terms of which may not be attractive. Student loan asset-backed securitizations have historically been our sole source of permanent financing for our clients' private student loan programs. We were unable to complete a securitization transaction during the second, third or fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, and we do not expect to complete a securitization in the near-term. In addition, we have been unsuccessful in obtaining alternatives to securitization to finance our clients' loans. Other sources of funding have not been available to us on acceptable terms, if available at all. Recent conditions in the capital markets have generally resulted in a substantial widening of credit spreads and significantly more restrictive covenants, which has adversely affected the pricing and terms and conditions of alternative funding mechanisms that we have pursued. Our facilitated loan volume available for securitization has grown since the securitization transactions we completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. At June 30, 2008, the principal balance of loans facilitated and available to us for securitization was $3.4 billion. Under the terms of our purchase agreements with lender clients, we generally have an obligation to use our best efforts to facilitate the purchase of the client's loans during a specified loan purchase period. The length of the loan purchase period varies by client and generally ranges from 195 days to 555 days following final loan disbursement. Our purchase agreements applicable to approximately $1.3 billion of the facilitated loan volume available for securitization as of June 30, 2008 do not include a liquidated damages provision in the event that we fail to facilitate a securitization in breach of our obligations, and the amount of our potential liability with respect to such loans is not determinable at this time. If we do not honor our contractual obligations, our value proposition to clients and prospective clients would be compromised, our relationships with current clients could terminate and our prospective clients may not be interested in entering into business arrangements with us. In addition, our financial results would be adversely affected if we were required to pay damages. In structuring and facilitating securitizations of our clients' loans and as holders of rights to receive residual cash flows in those trusts, we may incur liabilities to investors in the asset-backed securities those trusts issue. We have facilitated and structured a number of different special purpose trusts that have been used in securitizations to finance student loans that our clients originate. Under applicable state and federal securities laws, if investors incur losses as a result of purchasing ABS that those trusts issue, we could be deemed responsible and could be liable to those investors for damages. If we failed to cause the trusts to disclose adequately all material information regarding an investment in the ABS or if the trust made statements that were misleading in any material respect in information delivered to investors, it is possible that we could be held responsible for that information or omission. In addition, under various agreements entered into with underwriters or financial guaranty insurers of those ABS, as well as certain lenders, we are contractually bound to indemnify those persons if investors are successful in seeking to recover losses from those parties and the trusts are found to have made materially misleading statements or to have omitted material information. If we are liable for losses investors incur in any of the securitizations that we facilitate or structure and any insurance that we may have does not cover this liability or proves to be insufficient, our profitability or financial position could be materially adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Reporting and Liquidity If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary materially from those reflected in our financial statements. Historically, we have received structural advisory fees for our services in connection with securitization transactions. We have received an up-front portion of these structural advisory fees when the securitization trust purchases the loans. We are entitled to receive an additional portion of these structural advisory fees over time, based on the amount of loans outstanding in the trust from time to time over the life of the trust. We also have the right to receive a portion of any residual interests that the trust creates. As required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, we recognize as revenue an estimate of the fair value of the additional portion of the structural advisory fees and residuals at the time the securitization trust purchases the loans because these revenues are deemed to be earned before they are actually paid to us. We record additional structural advisory fees and residuals as receivables on our balance sheet at our estimate of their fair value. Because there are no quoted market prices for our additional structural advisory fees or residuals receivable, we use discounted cash flow modeling techniques and certain assumptions to estimate fair value. We estimate the fair value both initially and in each subsequent quarter and reflect the change in our estimate of fair value in earnings for that period. Our key assumptions to estimate the fair value include: discount rates; the annual rate and timing of student loan prepayments; the trend of interest rates over the life of the loan pool, including the forward LIBOR curve, and the spread between LIBOR and auction rates; the expected annual rate and timing of loan defaults, and TERI's ability to pay default claims; expected recoveries of defaulted loans, including the use of recoveries to replenish trusts' pledged funds; the source and amount of guaranty payments made on defaulted loans; and the fees and expenses of the securitization trusts. Our estimates rely on quantitative and qualitative factors, including macroeconomic indicators to predict prepayment, default and recovery rates, and management's ability to determine which factors are more heavily weighted in our estimates, and to accurately incorporate those factors into our estimates, are subjective and can have a material effect on valuations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, we changed our key accounting assumptions which resulted in a $178 million pre-tax decrease in the value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivables. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we changed our key accounting assumptions, including our assumptions with regard to TERI's ability to pay guaranty claims from its general reserves, which resulted in a $315.3 million pre-tax decrease in the value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivables. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we further changed our key accounting assumptions, including our assumptions with regard to the discount rates used in determining the value of our service receivables, which resulted in a $60.0 million pre-tax decrease in the value of those receivables. In general, our adjustments during fiscal 2008 were necessary because securitization trusts had performed below our range of expectations, including with regard to prepayments, delinquencies and defaults, investors' interest rate yield requirements have widened reflecting current dislocations in the capital markets, TERI's claims paying ability is less certain as a result of its reorganization, and the estimated cost of funding auction rate notes issued by several securitization trusts is now projected to be higher than previously estimated. For a discussion of these changes and the sensitivity of the additional structural advisory fees and residuals to variations in our assumptions and estimates, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." We also made adjustments to certain key assumptions during the third quarter of fiscal 2007. If the actual performance of some or all of the securitization trusts were to vary appreciably from the adjusted assumptions we use, we may need to adjust further our key assumptions, which could adversely affect our earnings in the period in which our assumptions change, and the actual additional 29 Table of Contents structural advisory fees and residuals that we receive from the trusts could be significantly less than reflected in our current financial statements. In addition, our securitization yields, or our structural advisory fees and residuals from a new securitization transaction expressed as a percentage of the total principal and accrued interest securitized, realized on future securitized transactions could decrease if the actual performance of some or all of the securitization trusts varies from the key assumptions we have historically used. In particular, economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors affecting prepayment, default and recovery rates on the underlying securitized loan portfolio, including full or partial prepayments and prepayments as a result of loan consolidation activity, could cause or contribute to differences between the actual performance of the securitization trusts and our key assumptions. In addition, developments in the TERI Reorganization, including challenges to the trusts' security interests in collateral securing TERI's guaranty obligations or TERI's rejection of its guaranty agreements could cause us to adjust further our key assumptions. Finally, recent and continuing dislocations in the capital markets have resulted in increased volatility in investors' yield requirements for ABS. If such conditions persist, we may need to adjust further our key assumptions. While we have no further obligation to support the obligations within the bankruptcy-remote securitization trusts, our residuals and additional structural advisory fees in each securitization we have facilitated are subordinate to securities issued to investors in such securitizations and may fail to generate any cash flow for us if the securitized assets do not generate enough cash flow to pay debt holders in full or only generate enough cash flow to pay the debt holders. As a result of the TERI Reorganization, we expect as of June 30, 2008 to receive additional structural advisory fees and residuals beginning five to seventeen years after the date of a particular securitization transaction. At December 31, 2007, we expected to receive such cash flows beginning five to seven years after the date of a particular securitization. Our loans held for sale at June 30, 2008 consisted of $497.3 million in education loans originated by Union Federal. Our loans held for sale are recorded at lower of cost or fair value. The estimated fair value of loans held for sale is evaluated on a periodic basis and, in the absence of readily determined market values, is based on the present value of expected future cash flow using management's estimates. Under GAAP, we are required to reduce the carrying value of our education loans if their fair value decreases below our cost. In such an event, we would be required to write-down the carrying value of our education loans, which would result in an increase in our general and administrative expenses, and we may be required to provide additional regulatory capital to Union Federal. We recorded a valuation adjustment of approximatley $7.3 million in fiscal 2008, and we may be required to make additional adjustments in the future. Our assumptions regarding the future cost of funding of auction rate notes are highly uncertain and greatly affect the valuation of our service receivables. Five private label loan trusts have issued auction rate notes to finance, in whole or in part, the purchase of student loans. Interest rates for the auction rate notes are determined from time to time at auctions. We use a spread over LIBOR to project the future cost of funding of the auction rate notes issued by each such trust in determining the value of our service receivables. Historically, the spread over LIBOR that we used to estimate the future cost of funding was based on historical trends, then current auction rates for each trust and assumptions for future auction rates. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, material deterioration of the debt capital markets resulted in actual auction rates that trended significantly higher than the rates we had assumed in the past. We also concluded that the higher actual auction rates would persist, resulting in a greater spread over LIBOR, for a longer period of time than we had previously estimated. Our assumption with regard to future auction rates, like our other key valuation assumptions, requires our subjective judgment and is susceptible to change. The interest rate on each outstanding auction rate note is limited by a maximum rate. The maximum rate is the least of three rates: a floating interest rate (generally one month LIBOR plus a 30 Table of Contents margin), a fixed interest rate and the maximum legally permissible rate. The margin applicable to the floating interest rate is dependent upon the then current ratings of the notes subject to an auction. If the notes are downgraded, the applicable margin, and the maximum floating rate, would increase. If the interest rate determined pursuant to the auction procedures would exceed the maximum rate, the interest rate for the applicable interest period would be set at the maximum rate, but the amount of the "excess" interest would accrue as "carryover interest." A noteholder's right to receive carryover interest is superior to our interests in the applicable securitization trust. As a result, our projected cash releases from securitization trusts that have issued auction rate notes, including the timing of receipt, could be materially adversely affected by increased costs of funding of auction rate notes, including the extent to which a trust accrues carryover interest. Under the contracts by which auctions are conducted, broker-dealers may submit orders in auctions for their own account. As a result of such bidding, a broker-dealer may prevent a failed auction, or the interest rate resulting from an auction may be lower than the rate that would have prevailed had the broker-dealer not bid. A failed auction occurs when an existing owner does not have its notes purchased through the auction procedures because the amount of notes submitted for sale exceeds the amount of purchase orders. Broker dealers, some of which have served as underwriters of the securitizations that we have facilitated, have bid, and may continue to bid, in auctions relating to our trusts' auction rate notes. These bids in the past have both prevented failed auctions and supported interest rates determined at auction. Broker-dealers have no obligation to submit orders in auctions, and to the extent broker-dealers do not submit such bids in the future, the interest rates on our trusts' auction rate notes could be higher than they have been historically, including higher than the maximum rate, which would result in carryover interest, and there could be failed auctions for such notes. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the auction rate securities market systematically failed. During the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, failed auctions occurred with respect to auction rate notes issued by each of the five securitization trusts that have issued auction rate notes. As a result of the failed auctions, the auction rate notes bear interest at a maximum rate, which is calculated as one-month LIBOR plus 1.50%, in the case of auction rate notes that are rated at least Aa3 by Moody's Investors Service, or Moody's, and AA- by Standard & Poor's, or S&P, or 2.50%, in the case of auction rate notes that are rated at least A3 by Moody's and A- by S&P, based on the ratings assigned to the auction rate notes as of August 28, 2008. Auction rate notes issued by two securitization trusts are also rated by Fitch Ratings, or Fitch, and bear interest at a maximum rate that is calculated as one-month LIBOR plus 1.50%, in the case of auction rate notes that are rated at least AA- by Fitch as of August 28, 2008, or one-month LIBOR plus 2.50%, in the case of auction rate notes that are rated at least A- by Fitch as of August 28, 2008. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we revised our assumption with regard to the future cost of funding of auction rate notes. We assumed at June 30, 2008 that all outstanding auction rate notes will continue to bear interest at the current spreads over one-month LIBOR until their expected maturity dates. As a result, during the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we decreased the estimated fair value of our residuals receivable by $59.5 million and the estimated fair value of our additional structural advisory fees receivable by $54,000. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Service Revenue and Receivables", and in the securitization trust cash flow projections included under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Service Receivables." Auctions have historically provided a liquid market for our trusts' outstanding auction rate notes. Illiquidity as a result of failed auctions could result in higher interest rates determined by future auctions, derogatory rating agency action, including ratings downgrades, and impairment charges by the holders of the outstanding auction rate notes, each of which could materially adversely affect future demand for auction rate notes that we facilitate and limit a financing structure that we have used as recently as the first quarter of fiscal 2008. 31 Table of Contents Our financial results could be adversely affected if we were required to consolidate the financial results of the entities that we use for securitizations that we facilitate. We provide structural advisory and other services for loan securitizations undertaken through statutory trusts. We do not consolidate the financial results of the trusts with our own financial results. For a discussion of our decision not to consolidate, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Consolidation" included in this annual report. Some of the accounting rules relevant to this issue are in the process of being amended. In particular, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, has embarked upon a project to amend FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, that would potentially remove the concept of the Qualifying Special Purpose Entity, or QSPE, from such statement effective for fiscal years beginning after November 1, 2009 and thereby eliminate gain on sale accounting as currently utilized by us. As a result of this, the FASB would then also remove the QSPE exception from FASB Interpretation Number or FIN, No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. The FASB is expected to issue an exposure draft on this topic and the ultimate impact, if any, of these deliberations on our accounting practices is uncertain at this time. If we were required to consolidate the financial results of one or more trusts with our own financial results as a result of amendments or changes in accounting rules, or if the SEC or other accounting authorities do not agree with our current approach, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our near-term financial results could also be adversely affected if we were to conduct future securitization transactions, or alternative funding transactions, as "on balance sheet" financing transactions. Changes in interest rates could affect the value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivable, as well as demand for private student loans and our services. Private student loans typically carry floating interest rates. Higher interest rates would increase the cost of the loan to the borrower, which in turn, could cause an increase in default rates for outstanding student loans. In addition, higher interest rates, or the perception that interest rates could increase in the future, could cause an increase in prepayments, including full or partial prepayments or prepayments as a result of loan consolidation activity. In particular, prepayments may increase during periods in which long-term interest rates, such as interest rates on mortgages, are lower than short-term interest rates, including rates on student loans. If the prepayment or default rates increase for the student loans held by the securitization trusts, we may experience a decline in the value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivable, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock and could cause future securitization transactions to be less profitable for us. In addition, most of the student loans that our clients originate carry floating rates of interest tied to prevailing short-term interest rates. An increase in interest rates could reduce borrowing for education generally, which, in turn, could cause the overall demand for our services to decline. If sufficient funds to finance our business, including Union Federal, are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, then we may be required to delay, scale back, eliminate or alter our strategy. We may require additional funds for our programs, our operating expenses, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs primarily through student loan asset-backed securitizations. The securitization market has not been available to us and may not be available to us when needed in the future, and, if available, the terms may not be acceptable to us. We have also satisfied our funding needs through equity financings. On December 21, 2007, we announced an investment agreement with affiliates of GSCP relating to an equity investment. Subsequently, we received aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $192.5 million, $132.7 million of which was received on August 18, 2008, in connection with the sale of equity securities to the purchasers. We cannot assure you that the proceeds of the equity investment by affiliates of GSCP will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs or capital funding 32 Table of Contents requirements beyond fiscal 2009, particularly in the event of a prolonged dislocation in the private student loan ABS market. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our programs and to further scale back our expenses. Risks Related to the TERI Reorganization The TERI Reorganization has had, and will likely continue to have, a negative effect on our client relationships, which will adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We have historically structured and supported private student loan programs for commercial banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and RBS. Structural advisory fees and residuals from securitization of JPMorgan Chase loans represented approximately 34% of our total securitization-related fees from the trusts used to securitize student loans during fiscal 2008 and approximately 29% of our total revenue for fiscal 2007. Structural advisory fees and residuals from securitization of Bank of America loans represented approximately 20% of our total securitization-related fees from the trusts used to securitize student loans during fiscal 2008 and approximately 15% of total revenue for fiscal 2007. We also historically structured and supported private student loan programs for companies such as NextStudent Inc. that assisted lenders such as RBS in marketing their programs to customers. Structural advisory fees and residuals from securitization of RBS loans, including loans funded by RBS but marketed by third parties on behalf of RBS, represented approximately 23% of our total securitization-related fees from the trusts used to securitize student loans during fiscal 2008 and approximately 24% of total revenue for fiscal 2007. Loans originated by JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and RBS represented approximately 26%, 18% and 27%, respectively, of our total principal amount of loans facilitated and available for securitization for fiscal 2008. Certain of our client agreements provided for termination rights in the event of the filing by TERI of a voluntary petition under federal bankruptcy laws. In April 2008, we received notice that Bank of America elected to terminate its agreements with us due to the TERI Reorganization. We also received notice that RBS elected to terminate certain agreements with our clients and us. In July 2008, our note purchase agreement with JPMorgan Chase was terminated in the context of the TERI Reorganization. As a result of those terminations, we no longer have rights to purchase certain program loans. In total, loans subject to the terminated note purchase agreements represented approximately 22% of our loans available for securitization for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Certain of our clients that have not terminated their agreements have suspended their marketing of TERI-guaranteed loan programs as a result of the TERI Reorganization. These actions, together with the tightening of our clients' loan underwriting criteria, resulted in a significant reduction in our facilitated loan volumes during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. In addition, we expect that the guaranty agreements and loan origination agreements that most or all of our clients have with TERI will be terminated in the context of the TERI Reorganization. Termination of the client's guaranty agreement or loan origination agreement with TERI would generally result in the termination of our agreements with the client. The termination of our agreements with Bank of America, RBS and JPMorgan Chase will, and the termination of guaranty agreements or loan origination agreements between TERI and our other clients would further, materially reduce the overall volume of loans we facilitate, which will be difficult to replace. Our revenue, business and financial results will suffer as a result. Our Master Servicing Agreement, Master Loan Guaranty Agreement and Database Sale and Supplementation Agreement, with TERI terminated effective as of May 31, 2008. TERI has historically been the exclusive third party provider of borrower default guarantees for our clients' private label loans. In addition, we had an agreement to provide various loan origination services for TERI and an agreement to receive from TERI updated information about the performance of the student loans it had guaranteed, to allow us to supplement our database. In June 2008, in the context of the TERI Reorganization, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving a motion by 33 Table of Contents TERI terminating our "master" agreements. As a result of the terminations, our business has been and could continue to be adversely affected for the following reasons: •we may not be able to offer our clients guaranty services from another guarantor; •we have lost our right to cost reimbursement from TERI in providing our services pursuant to our master servicing agreement; •we may not be successful in establishing an arrangement with a third party to provide the warranties that TERI currently provides to lenders related to origination services. In such case, we may be required to provide such warranties; •if TERI is unable to provide guaranty services for loans, any financial guaranty insurance coverage we obtain in securitization transactions could be costly, if available at all; and •we no longer have access to continuing updates to the database of TERI-guaranteed loan performance data for TERI-guaranteed loans not owned by securitization trusts facilitated by us. As a result, demand for our services, including opportunities to structure and facilitate securitization transactions, could decline, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, the value of the loans in the securitization transactions we facilitate could decline and the value of our residuals could be reduced. The TERI Reorganization will adversely affect our ability to facilitate the securitization of TERI-guaranteed loans, and could adversely affect our residual interests in securitization trusts. In its role as guarantor in the private education lending market, TERI has agreed to reimburse lenders for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted loans. TERI has historically been the exclusive provider of borrower default guarantees for our clients' private label loans. We expect the TERI Reorganization to adversely affect our ability to facilitate the securitization of TERI-guaranteed loans. In particular, we expect investors to ascribe little or no value to the TERI-guarantee beyond a trust's pledge fund. As a result, in structuring future securitizations of TERI-guaranteed loans, we will likely be required to reduce or eliminate our up-front structural advisory fee in order to increase the level of reserves available to the trust. In addition, it is likely that we would need to obtain additional credit enhancement for any future securitizations of TERI-guaranteed loans, the cost of which would also result in lower revenues. To the extent the pledged fund or other reserves available to a particular securitization trust were exhausted and loan defaults continued to occur, that trust would have a claim as an unsecured creditor of TERI in the context of the TERI Reorganization. If TERI's general reserves are insufficient to satisfy the guaranty claims, loan defaults would have a further adverse affect on the amount or timing of residual cash flows that we would otherwise expect to receive from the trust. In April and May 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued interim orders prohibiting TERI from withdrawing any amounts from its segregated reserve accounts until further order by the Bankruptcy Court. In June 2008, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving a motion by TERI to purchase defaulted loans using cash in Pledged Accounts established for the benefit of certain securitization trusts. The order was granted subject to the following: •The Creditors Committee, or any other person or entity, had the right to challenge the validity, perfection, priority or enforceability of the trusts' security interests in (i) the Pledged Accounts within 14 days following the order, (ii) Post-Petition Transfers within 45 days following the order and (iii) collateral securing TERI's guaranty obligations other than the Pledged Accounts and the Post-Petition Transfers (such as recoveries on loans that have previously defaulted) within 60 days following the order. •Recoveries that have not been transferred to a Pledged Account will be placed in a segregated account and held in such account until the earlier of (i) the 61st day following the order and 34 Table of Contents (ii) the entry of an order by the Bankruptcy Court directing the disposition, transfer or other use of funds in such account. The Bankruptcy Court, with the assent of all affected parties, subsequently extended until October 1, 2008 all parties' rights to challenge the trusts' security interests in the collateral securing TERI's guaranty obligations other than the Pledged Accounts, notably recoveries. Extension of the objection deadline will allow the Creditors Committee additional time to review and discuss its potential objections with the affected parties. If the Creditors Committee or any other party were successful in challenging the trusts' security interests in the Post-Petition Transfers or other collateral, including recoveries, amounts available exclusively to a particular securitization trust to satisfy TERI's guaranty obligations to that trust would decrease materially. The trust's unsecured claims against TERI would increase proportionately. For example, recoveries from defaulted student loans, which have historically been used to replenish a particular trust's pledge fund, would instead become an asset of TERI's bankruptcy estate and available to satisfy administrative claims of TERI's bankruptcy estate and claims of unsecured creditors. In addition, TERI may seek to reject its guaranty obligations entirely in the context of the TERI Reorganization. Any of these developments would materially decrease our service receivables and could further harm our ability to structure securitizations in the future. Risks Related to Our Industry, Business and Operations Challenges exist in implementing revisions to our business model. Historically, our net income has been derived almost exclusively from structuring securitizations of our clients' private student loans. We have been unable to access the securitization market as a result of market disruptions that began in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, accelerated during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 and persist as of August 28, 2008. That inability, together with the TERI Reorganization, has impacted our client relationships, resulted in the termination of certain material client agreements, reduced our facilitated loan volume and challenged our business prospects. We have refined our business model significantly in order to address the challenges currently facing us. Our revised business model includes fee-for-service sales of our capabilities, including private loan marketing expertise, loan origination and disbursement, program design, risk management and portfolio management. In addition, we have developed a private label loan program that would not require a guaranty from a third party. Successful sales of these services will be critical in order to grow our revenues and client base in the future. We have limited experience with the new private loan program and our fee-for-service business strategy, and we are uncertain of the level of interest from former, current or prospective clients with regard to the new program or offered services. Commercial banks have historically served as the initial funding sources for loans we manage and have been our principal clients. In the absence of securitizations, we are not able to provide liquidity necessary to support long term funding of private loans, and commercial banks are facing liquidity and credit challenges from other sources, in particular mortgage lending losses. In addition, the synergies that previously existed between federal loan marketing and private loan marketing have been reduced by both the compression of margins in the federal program and regulatory restrictions on cross marketing of federal and private loans. As a result, as of the date of this annual report the private student loan business may generally be less attractive to commercial banks than in the past. In this environment, it is uncertain whether commercial banks will continue funding private student loans. Some of our former clients, including Bank of America, have exited the market segment. To the extent that commercial banks exit the private student loan market, the number of our prospective clients diminishes. 35 Table of Contents The outsourcing services market for education lending is competitive and if we are not able to compete effectively, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. We offer our clients and prospective clients, national and regional financial institutions and educational institutions, services in structuring and supporting their private education loan programs. The outsourcing services market in which we operate includes a large number of service providers, some of which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients than we have. Larger competitors with greater financial resources may be better able than we are to overcome capital markets dislocations, respond to the need for technological changes, compete for skilled professionals, build upon efficiencies based on a larger volume of loan transactions, fund internal growth and compete for market share generally. We may face competition from our clients or former clients if they choose, or acquire the ability, to provide directly the services that we provide, or formerly provided, to them. In addition, to the extent that Union Federal provides student loans directly to consumers, we would compete directly with clients and former clients. We may face competition from third parties who decide to expand their services to include the suite of services that we provide. We are aware of four principal competitors, Sallie Mae, Servus Financial Corporation, an affiliate of Wells Fargo Company, Student Loan Corporation, an 80% owned subsidiary of Citibank, N.A., and CampusDoor, a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, that offer a similar range of services to lenders. Our business could also be adversely affected if Sallie Mae's program to market private student loans directly to consumers continues to grow, if Sallie Mae seeks to market more aggressively to third parties the full range of services for private loan programs that we provide or if Sallie Mae's private loan consolidation product results in increased consolidation of private student loans held by the securitization trusts we have facilitated. Sallie Mae has announced that it intends to focus increasingly on originating private student loans both through the school channel and the direct to consumer channel. We are also aware of smaller privately held venture backed companies that are developing systems and expertise with plans to compete directly with us. If we are not able to compete effectively, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if third parties choose to provide the range of services that we provide, pricing for our services may become more competitive, which could lower our profitability. In addition, there has been significant consolidation within the banking and financial services industry. Further consolidation could result in a loss of business if one or more of our clients were acquired by a competitor or a lender that is not our client. Historically, lenders in the education loan market have focused their lending activities on federal loans because of the relative size of the federal loan market and because the federal government guarantees repayment of these loans, thereby significantly limiting the lenders' credit risk. The demand for our services could decline if lenders place additional emphasis on the private education loan market and offer the services we provide, in response to recent legislative initiatives affecting the availability and profitability of federal loans. The growth of our business could be adversely affected by changes in federal student loan programs or expansions in the population of students eligible for loans under federal student loan programs. We focus our business exclusively on the market for private education loans, and more than 90% of our business is concentrated in loan programs for post-secondary education. The availability and terms of loans that the federal government originates or guarantees affects the demand for private student loans because students and their families often rely on private loans to bridge a gap between available funds, including family savings, grants and federal and state loans, and the costs of post-secondary education. The federal government currently places both annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of federal loans that any student can receive and determines the criteria for student eligibility. These guidelines are generally adjusted in connection with funding authorizations from the United States Congress for programs under the Higher Education Act. The Deficit Reduction 36 Table of Contents Act of 2005 increased amounts that first and second year college students may borrow and made Parent Loans for Undergraduate Students, or PLUS, loans available to graduate and professional students. Loans to fund graduate level education represented approximately 10% during fiscal 2008, 11% during fiscal 2007 and 15% during fiscal 2006 of our total loan facilitation volume. The loan limit increases took effect July 1, 2007 while most other provisions took effect July 1, 2006. Recent federal legislation expands federal grant and loan assistance, which could weaken the demand for private student loans. In addition, legislation such as the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 has significantly reduced the profit margins of traditional providers of federal loans, which could result in increased competition in the market for private student loans, which could adversely affect the volume of private loans and the securitization transactions that we facilitate and structure and, as a result, the growth of our business. Bills recently passed by the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives, intended to inject liquidity into the student loan asset-backed securitization market, would enable the Department of Education to buy only federally guaranteed student loans, not private student loans. On May 7, 2008, the President signed into law the "Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008," which contains provisions which might adversely impact the demand for private educational loans and outsourcing services provided by us, availability and flow of funds for private educational loans, and our liquidity position. Among other things, the Act: •permits a parent borrower under the federal PLUS Loan program to defer repayment of the PLUS loan until six months after the student ceases to carry at least one-half the normal full-time academic workload; •extends eligibility for a parent PLUS loan to an applicant who, during the period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2009, has not been delinquent for more than 180 days on mortgage loan payments or medical bill payments nor more than 89 days delinquent on the repayment of any other debt, in any case, during such period; and •increases the loan limits for unsubsidized Stafford loans for undergraduate students. On August 14, 2008, President Bush signed the Higher Education Opportunity Act, which will: •add significant restrictions to the marketing of federal and private loans; and •add significant compliance burdens to private lenders by adding new truth-in-lending disclosures, procedures and rescission rights, as well as accompanying civil penalties. Access to alternative means of financing the costs of education may reduce demand for private student loans. The demand for private student loans could weaken if student borrowers use other vehicles to bridge the gap between available funds and costs of post-secondary education. These vehicles include, among others: •home equity loans, under which families borrow money based on the value of their real estate; •pre-paid tuition plans, which allow students to pay tuition at today's rates to cover tuition costs in the future; •529 plans, which are state-sponsored investment plans that allow a family to save funds for education expenses; and •education IRAs, now known as Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, under which a holder can make annual contributions for education savings. If demand for private student loans weakens, we would experience reduced demand for our services, which would seriously harm our financial results. If our clients do not actively or successfully market and originate student loans, our business will be adversely affected. We have in the past, and will continue in the future, to rely on our clients to market and originate education loans to student borrowers. If they do not devote sufficient time and resources to their 37 Table of Contents marketing efforts, or if they are otherwise not successful in these efforts, then we may experience a reduction in the volume of loans that we process and securitize, and our business will be adversely affected. Certain of our clients have terminated their marketing coordination agreements with us, and additional clients that have not terminated their agreements have suspended their marketing of TERI-guaranteed loan programs as a result of the TERI Reorganization or instructed TERI to stop accepting applications for TERI-guaranteed loans. In addition, if the loans were marketed by our clients in a manner that is unfair or deceptive, or if the marketing, origination or servicing violated any applicable law, state unfair and deceptive practices acts could impose liability on a securitization trust holding the loan or create defenses to the enforceability of the loan. In response to recent legislative initiatives, lenders may increasingly focus on the direct to consumer marketing channel, increasing competition within the channel for private student loans. Investigations by the New York Attorney General, the Attorneys General of other states, the United States Congress or others could have a negative impact on the ability of our clients, and Union Federal, to market student loans. The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 creates significant additional restrictions on the marketing of private student loans. We have expanded rapidly in recent years, and we are now streamlining our operations; if we fail to manage effectively our cost reductions, our business could be disrupted and financial results could be adversely affected. From our inception to June 30, 2008, our assets grew to $1.2 billion. In February 2008, we reduced headcount by 120 employees. In May 2008, we announced that we had reduced headcount by approximately 500 employees. Our cost reduction measures will place a strain on our management, systems and resources at a critical point in our business and industry. We must develop alternatives to the loan guaranty and origination services that TERI has historically provided to our clients, and we must refine our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. We must retain, train, supervise and manage our remaining employees during this period of change in our business. We currently co-source some borrower services and telesales functions in an effort to reduce costs, take advantage of technologies and effectively manage the seasonality associated with student loan volume. We rely on our vendors to provide high levels of service and support. Our reliance on these external vendors subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely service and could result in fewer loans than we would experience if we performed the service functions in-house. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: •expand our systems effectively; •allocate our human resources optimally; •identify, hire and retain qualified employees or vendors; or •incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. We are dependent upon the retention of certain key employees and the loss of any such employees could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to manage our cost reductions, or if we lose key employees as a result, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected. If competitors acquire or develop a student loan database or advanced loan information processing systems, our business could be adversely affected. We own a proprietary database of historical information on private student loan performance that we use to help us establish the pricing provisions of new loan programs on behalf of lenders, determine the terms of securitization transactions and establish the fair value of the structural advisory fees and residuals that we recognize as revenue. We also have developed a proprietary loan information 38 Table of Contents processing system to enhance our application processing and loan origination capabilities. Our student loan database and loan information processing system provide us with a competitive advantage in offering our services. Third parties could create or acquire databases and systems such as ours. For example, as lenders and other organizations in the student loan market originate or service loans, they compile over time information for their own student loan performance database. If a third party creates or acquires a student loan database or develops a loan information processing system, our competitive positioning, ability to attract new clients and business could be adversely affected. As a result of the termination of our agreements with TERI in the context of the TERI Reorganization, we have lost access to continuing updates to the database of TERI-guaranteed loan performance data with regard to TERI-guaranteed loans that are neither held by securitization trusts facilitated by us nor Union Federal. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary database and information systems and processes, the value of our services and technology will be adversely affected. We rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our proprietary database and information systems and processes. We have sought to limit TERI's rights to disclose its historical loan database in the context of the TERI Reorganization, and we have entered into confidentiality agreements with third parties and with some of our employees to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information. These methods may neither effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information nor provide meaningful protection for our confidential information if there is unauthorized use or disclosure. We own no material patents and have filed no patent applications with respect to our proprietary database or loan information processing systems. Accordingly, our technology is not covered by patents that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our market. Monitoring unauthorized use of the systems and processes that we have developed is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and services will be adversely affected. The loan origination process is becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, and we could lose clients and market share if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology. Our ability to handle an increasing volume of transactions is based in large part on the systems and processes we have implemented and developed. The loan origination process is becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement such as the ability to process loans over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide process updates instantly. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with these and other continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. If competitors introduce products, services, systems and processes that are better than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, those that we offer or use may become obsolete or noncompetitive. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and retain key clients. We may be required to expend significant funds to develop or acquire new technologies. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, we could lose clients and market share. We also could lose market share if our competitors develop more cost effective technologies than those we offer or develop. 39 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected if PHEAA fails to provide adequate or timely services or if our relationship with PHEAA terminates. As of June 30, 2008, PHEAA serviced a substantial majority of loans held by the securitization trusts that we administer. This arrangement allows us to avoid the overhead investment in servicing operations but requires us to rely on PHEAA to adequately service the trust student loans, including collecting payments, responding to borrower inquiries and communicating with borrowers whose loans have become delinquent. Our reliance on an external service provider for loan servicing subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely services, including notice of developments in prepayments, delinquencies and defaults. A substantial increase in these rates could adversely affect our ability to access profitably the securitization markets for our clients' loans and the value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivables. In addition, if PHEAA were to fail to comply with TERI's servicing guidelines in servicing securitized TERI-guaranteed student loans, TERI would not be obligated to make guaranty payments on such loans, in which case PHEAA would be obligated to cure the noncompliance or purchase the loans. Such an event could have a negative impact on the value of our residuals and additional structural advisory fee receivables. If our relationship with PHEAA terminates, we would either need to expand or develop a relationship with another loan servicer, which could be time consuming and costly. In such event, our business could be adversely affected. Although we periodically review the costs associated with establishing servicing operations to service loans, we have no plans to establish and perform servicing operations at this time. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our systems and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users and natural disasters. Any failure or interruption, or breach in security, of our information systems or the third party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan processing. A failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in an obligation to notify clients in a number of states that require such notification, with possible civil liability resulting from such failure, interruption or breach. We cannot assure you that such failures, interruptions or breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that we or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or telephone systems interruptions may not be adequate, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems. Key backup and recovery capabilities have been implemented, however, we have not instituted redundancy for all key systems. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or breach could significantly impair the reputation of our brand, diminish the attractiveness of our services and harm our business. If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties imposed by regulators, civil actions for damages and negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, current state and federal legislative proposals, if enacted, may impose additional requirements on us to safeguard confidential customer information, which may result in increased compliance costs. Recently, data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals addressing data privacy and security. If some of the current proposals are adopted, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the borrower information that we process in connection with the loans. Implementation of systems and procedures to address these requirements would increase our compliance costs. If we were to experience a data security breach, or if we or the securitization trusts that we administer otherwise improperly disclose confidential customer information, such breach or 40 Table of Contents other disclosure could generate negative publicity about us and could adversely affect our relationships with our clients, including the lenders and educational institutions with which we do business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, pending legislative proposals, if adopted, likely would result in substantial penalties for unauthorized disclosure of confidential consumer information. New requirements issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council regarding authentication of customers accessing account information became effective January 1, 2007. Those requirements have posed technology challenges for us, and we have implemented additional authentication procedures in order to comply with those requirements. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in regulatory sanctions imposed on our client lenders and loss of business for us. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters We are subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and Union Federal Savings Bank is regulated extensively. As a result of our acquisition of Union Federal in November 2006, we became subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company and our business is limited to activities that are financial or real-estate related. We have registered with the OTS and are required to file periodic reports. In addition, we are subject to examination by the OTS, which has certain types of enforcement powers over us, including the ability in certain circumstances to review and approve changes in management, issue cease-and-desist orders, force divestiture of Union Federal and impose civil and monetary penalties for violations of federal banking laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. In addition, Union Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and the FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including activities and investments, lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capitalization, risk management policies and procedures, relationships with affiliated companies, recordkeeping and conduct and qualifications of personnel. In particular, the failure to meet minimum capital requirements could initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material adverse effect on our operations and financial statements. As a result of disruptions in the ABS market, we have been unable to facilitate the securitization of private student loans originated by Union Federal since September 2007. The OTS has expressed concern over the situation and could require additional infusions of regulatory capital into Union Federal in the future, which would erode our liquidity position. Other regulatory sanctions are available to the OTS in order to protect the safety and soundness of the institutions that it regulates. In addition, Union Federal will not be permitted to serve as a meaningful funding lender in our new private loan program until it improves its funding capacity. There is a risk that we could incur additional costs in complying with regulations applicable to savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules will depend largely on our establishment and maintenance of a system to ensure such compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We have relatively limited experience with these regulations, and we could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed noncompliance in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may become subject to state registration or licensing requirements. If we determine that we are subject to the registration or licensing requirements of any jurisdiction, our compliance costs could increase significantly and other adverse consequences may result. Many states have statutes and regulations that require the licensure of small loan lenders, loan brokers and loan arrangers. Some of these statutes are drafted or interpreted to cover a broad scope of activities. We have not taken formal action regarding licensing or registration with any regulatory body 41 Table of Contents outside the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, other than the OTS. While we believe that our prior consultations with regulatory counsel and, in some cases local counsel, have identified all material licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements that could be applicable to us, legislative changes to state licensing schemes have recently raised potential concern in one state. Even if we are not physically present in a state, its regulators may take the position that registration or licensing is required because we provide services by mail, telephone, the Internet or other remote means. All of our operations relating to education loan processing are located in Massachusetts. In 2001, we received determination letters from the Massachusetts Division of Banks confirming that the loan origination outsourcing services provided under contract to TERI by First Marblehead Education Resources, Inc., or FMER, was not subject to licensing under the Massachusetts Small Loan Act because FMER did not conduct a lending business with consumers in its own name and its processing centers were not generally open to the public. In May 2008, following the TERI Reorganization, we received an additional determination letter from the Massachusetts Division of Banks confirming that FMER's business of back office loan application processing, loan origination and loan underwriting functions on behalf of lenders was exempt from licensing under the Massachusetts Small Loan Act. The Massachusetts Small Loan Act requires any person that is engaged, for compensation, in the business of making small loans, or in aiding or assisting the borrower or the lender in procuring or making such loans, to obtain a license. Under the statute, the business of making small loans includes the making of loans of $6,000 or less with interest rates and expenses of more than 12% per year. The loans that we facilitate include amounts as small as $1,000, and a portion of those loans have combined interest rates and fees exceeding 12%. We will continue to review state registration and licensing requirements that may become applicable to us in the future. As a result of this continuing review, we may determine that registration or licensing is required in jurisdictions where we are not currently registered or licensed. In such a case, we may proceed with licensing or registration in the affected state, or we may attempt to restructure our activities in a manner that we believe to be exempt from such licensing or registration. Compliance with state licensing requirements could involve additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to, among other things: •curtailment of our ability to continue to conduct business in the relevant jurisdiction, pending processing of registration or a license application; •administrative enforcement actions; •class action lawsuits; •the assertion of legal defenses delaying or otherwise affecting the enforcement of loans; and •criminal as well as civil liability, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a federally chartered institution, Union Federal, including its operating subsidiary FMLOS, may conduct its business without regard to such state licensing laws and requirements. We expect to provide outsourced student loan marketing services and certain student loan origination services through Union Federal or FMLOS on a fee-for-service basis. To the extent that these are conducted through Union Federal or FMLOS, we believe state regulatory requirements affecting loan brokers, small lenders and credits services organizations will be less likely to be asserted. We may be exposed to liability for failures of third parties with which we do business to comply with the registration, licensing and other requirements that apply to them. Third parties with which we do business, including federal and state chartered financial institutions, non-bank loan marketers, as well as TERI, are subject to registration, licensing and extensive governmental regulations, including Truth-in-Lending laws and other consumer protection laws and 42 Table of Contents regulations. For example, some of the third party marketers with which we have done or may do business may be subject to state registration or licensing requirements and laws and regulations, including those relating to small loans, loan brokers and credit services organizations. As a result of the activities that we conduct or may conduct for our clients, it may be asserted that we have some responsibility for compliance by third parties with which we do business with the laws and regulations applicable to them, whether on contractual or other grounds. If it is determined that we have failed to comply with our obligations with respect to these third parties, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or litigation, including class actions, and have a material adverse effect on our business. The federal government and state governments regulate extensively the financial institutions and other entities that originate loans in the student loan market. These regulations include bankruptcy, tax, usury, disclosure, credit reporting, identity theft, privacy, fraud and abuse and other laws to protect borrowers. Changes in consumer protection laws or related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, may expose us to litigation, result in greater compliance costs, adversely affect the collection of balances due on the loan assets held by securitization trusts or otherwise adversely affect our business. For example, the federal banking regulators comprising the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council approved in October 2007 final rules implementing identity theft prevention requirements from the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003. The FTC issued similar rules in October 2007 and other agencies are expected to follow. We could incur substantial additional expense complying with these requirements and may be required to create new processes and information systems. Moreover, changes in the consumer protection laws and related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, could invalidate or call into question the legality of certain of our services and business practices. The risk of noncompliance with regulatory requirements by our lender clients and their marketing partners has been highlighted by recent state and federal investigations into education loan marketing practices, particularly the payment of marketing fees directly to schools in exchange for loan referrals. None of our contracts with lenders or marketers involves the payment of fees to schools for loan volume. State and federal regulatory authorities have sought information from some of our former clients and us regarding the loan programs we coordinate, and it is possible that some marketing or underwriting practices associated with the programs we coordinate and assets we securitize will be challenged as a result of such investigations. On August 31, 2007, we announced that, as part of the New York Attorney General's ongoing investigation of several lending, educational, and nonprofit institutions, we had received a subpoena for information regarding our role in the student loan industry. As of August 28, 2008, we continue to work with the New York Attorney General's office regarding the investigation. The regulatory actions described above have also prompted state and federal legislation that will affect our operations. The State of New York has enacted legislation that may impede accepted marketing practices in the school channel, such as school endorsement of loan products that the school believes are beneficial to students. In addition, the New York legislation will require additional disclosures that will increase our costs. Similarly, the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 amended the federal Truth-in-Lending Act to add new disclosures and procedural requirements for marketing and originating private student loans. Violations of the laws or regulations governing our operations, or the operations of TERI or our clients, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services or our exclusion from participating in education loan programs. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, the loan assets held by securitization trusts that we have structured could be adversely impacted by 43 Table of Contents violation of tax or consumer protection laws. In such event, the value of our residual interests could also be adversely impacted. In some cases, such violations may render the loan assets unenforceable. Recent litigation has sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders; if litigation on similar theories were successful against us or any third party marketer, the loans that we securitize would be subject to individual state consumer protection laws. All of the lenders with which we work are federally-insured banks and credit unions and, therefore, are not subject to many state consumer protection laws, including limitations on certain interest rates, fees and other charges. In providing our private student loan services to our clients, we do not act as a lender, guarantor or loan servicer, and the terms of the loans that we securitize are regulated in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the lenders. The association between high-interest "payday loan" marketers and out-of-state national banks has come under recent scrutiny. Recent litigation asserts that payday loan marketers use out-of-state lenders in order to evade the usury and interest rate caps, and other consumer protection laws, imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought, successfully in some instances, to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. We believe that our activities, and the activities of third parties whose marketing on behalf of lenders is coordinated by us, are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the loans we facilitate if we, or any third party loan marketer whose activities we coordinate, were re-characterized as a lender, and the loans (or the provisions governing interest rates, fees and other charges) could be unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to claims by consumers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. To date, there have been no actions taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending. However, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: •actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts, including as a result of the timing, size and structure of our securitizations or alternative transactions; •difficulties we may encounter in structuring securitizations, including delays or alternative financings as a result of continued disruptions in the student loan ABS market or demand for securities offered by trusts that we facilitate, or the loss of opportunities to structure securitization transactions; •any variance between the actual performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions that we have used to estimate the fair value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivables; •changes in the key assumptions we use to estimate the fair value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivables, including among others, discount, default and prepayment rates; 44 Table of Contents •announcement by us, our competitors or our potential competitors of acquisitions, new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital markets activities; •developments in the TERI Reorganization, including challenges to the trusts' security interests in collateral securing TERI's guaranty obligations or TERI's rejection of its guaranty agreements; •loss of a significant client or clients; •negative publicity about the student loan market generally or us specifically; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market and volatility in the ABS market, from time to time; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services and process outsourcing companies; •general economic conditions and trends; •legislative initiatives affecting federal or private student loans; •major catastrophic events; •purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock; or •departures of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the recent volatility of our stock price, we have become the target of securities litigation. In April and May 2008, seven purported class actions were filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and certain of our directors in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information in various SEC filings, press releases and other public statements. The complaints allege various claims under the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. The complaints seek, among other relief, class certification, unspecified damages, fees and such other relief as the court may deem just and proper. On August 28, 2008, the court consolidated these cases and appointed lead plaintiffs and a lead counsel. A consolidated amended complaint is due to be filed on November 28, 2008. A class has not been certified in the actions as of August 28, 2008. In addition, three federal derivative lawsuits, and one state derivative lawsuit, have been filed against certain of our current and former officers and directors and nominally against us in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts and Massachusetts Superior Court, respectively. The derivative complaints allege, on behalf of us, various violations of federal and state law, including violations of the Exchange Act, breaches of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The derivative complaints seek a monetary judgment, injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement and a variety of purported corporate governance reforms. On August 28, 2008, the court consolidated the federal derivative cases and stayed them pending resolution of the purported class actions described above. We intend to vigorously assert our defenses in these actions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful, and an adverse resolution of any of the lawsuits could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations in the period in which a lawsuit is resolved. In addition, although we carry insurance for these types of claims, a judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are not presently able to reasonably estimate potential losses, if any, related to the lawsuits. We expect that this securities litigation, as well as any future litigation, could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business. 45 Table of Contents Insiders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, beneficially owned approximately 34% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of June 30, 2008. Subsequently, affiliates of GSCP were issued shares of preferred stock convertible into approximately 8.8 million shares of our common stock, and Daniel M. Meyers, who will begin serving as our President and Chief Executive Officer effective September 1, 2008, subject to subsequent regulatory approvals, was granted stock options potentially exercisable for 6.0 million shares of our common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, could substantially influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may deter third-parties from acquiring us. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: •only our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or our president may call special meetings of our stockholders; •our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; •we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; •our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present, or by the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and •we impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder," which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 46 Table of Contents 