Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with a limited operating history and may not be able to successfully market and sell any products, generate significant revenues or attain profitability. We are a development stage company focused on the development and commercialization of Increlex ™ for the treatment of short stature and other endocrine disorders. From our inception in October 2000 through December 31, 2005, we have accumulated a deficit of $165.7 million. We have not generated and may not be able to generate significant revenues from operations and may not be able to attain profitability. We incurred a net loss of $46.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. We expect to incur substantial net losses, in the aggregate and on a per share basis, for the foreseeable future as we attempt to develop, market and sell Increlex for severe Primary IGFD and Primary IGFD. We are unable to predict the extent of these future net losses, or when we may attain profitability, if at all. These net losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and net current assets. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability will be solely dependent on the successful commercialization of Increlex for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD and Primary IGFD. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain governmental regulatory approvals to market Increlex in the United States or rest of the world for these indications or any other indication. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from Increlex or attain profitability, we will not be able to sustain our operations. If there are fewer children with severe Primary IGFD or Primary IGFD than we estimate, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue development of other products or to continue operations, or we may not be able to complete our clinical trials. If there are fewer children with severe Primary IGFD or Primary IGFD than we estimate, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue development of other indications or products and may cease operations. We estimate that the number of children in the United States with short stature is approximately one million, of which approximately 380,000 are referred to pediatric endocrinologists for evaluation. We believe that approximately 30,000 of these children have Primary IGFD, of which approximately 6,000 have severe Primary IGFD. Our estimate of the size of the patient population is based on published studies as well as internal data, including our interpretation of a study conducted as part of Genentech’s National Cooperative Growth Study program. This study reported results of the evaluation of the hormonal basis of short stature in approximately 6,450 children referred to pediatric endocrinologists over a four-year period. We believe that the aggregate numbers of children in Western Europe with Primary IGFD and severe Primary IGFD are substantially equivalent to the numbers in the United States. If the results of Genentech’s study or our interpretation and extrapolation of data from the study do not accurately reflect the number of children with Primary IGFD or severe Primary IGFD, our assessment of the market may be incorrect, making it difficult or impossible for us to meet our revenue goals or to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials on a timely basis, or at all. 22 Table of Contents Increlex may fail to achieve market acceptance, which could harm our business. Prior to our January 2006 commercial launch of Increlex in the United States for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD, rhIGF-1 had never been commercialized in the United States or Europe for any indication. Even though the FDA has approved Increlex for sale in the United States, physicians may choose not to prescribe it, in which event we may be unable to generate significant revenue or become profitable. Acceptance of Increlex will depend on a number of factors including: • acceptance of Increlex by physicians and patients as a safe and effective treatment; • reimbursement adoption; • product price; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • storage requirements and ease of administration; • dosing regimen; • safety and efficacy; • prevalence and severity of side effects; and • competitive products. Reimbursement may not be available for Increlex, which could diminish our sales and impact our ability to achieve profitability. Market acceptance, our sales of Increlex and our profitability will depend on reimbursement policies and health care reform measures. The levels at which government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, reimburse the price patients pay for Increlex, and the timing of reimbursement decisions by these payors, will affect the commercialization of Increlex. We believe that Increlex will be reimbursed to a similar extent that growth hormone therapy is reimbursed. If our assumptions regarding the timing of reimbursement decisions or the level of reimbursement for Increlex are incorrect, our expected revenues may be delayed or substantially reduced. Since the FDA approved Increlex for severe Primary IGFD, only prescriptions for that indication may be reimbursable. Also, we cannot be sure that reimbursement amounts will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, Increlex. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to market and sell Increlex. We believe that the annual wholesale acquisition cost of Increlex therapy for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD for a 24 kilogram child would be approximately $23,000 per year. The actual cost per year per patient for Increlex will depend on the weight of the child, the treatment dose prescribed and compliance. In addition, it is possible that the children receiving Increlex therapy during the first few years of our launch are younger and/or smaller than those children receiving the drug in ensuing years, and the price per patient could be less than in subsequent years. If our assumptions regarding the price per patient of Increlex therapy for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD and Primary IGFD are incorrect, the market opportunity for Increlex therapy for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD and Primary IGFD may be substantially reduced. In recent years, officials have made numerous proposals to change the health care system in the United States. These proposals include measures that would limit or prohibit payments for certain medical treatments or subject the pricing of drugs to government control. In addition, in many foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control. If our product becomes subject to government legislation that limits or prohibits payment for Increlex, or that subjects the price of our product to governmental control, we may not be able to generate revenues, attain profitability or 23 Table of Contents market and sell our product. Because these initiatives are subject to substantial political debate, which we cannot predict, the trading price of biotechnology stocks, including ours, may become more volatile as this debate proceeds. As a result of legislative proposals and the trend towards managed health care in the United States, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals. As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payors will reimburse patients for their use of newly approved drugs, which, in turn, will put pressure on the pricing of drugs. We face significant competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies that could harm our business. The biotechnology industry is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological progress. In each of our potential product areas, we face significant competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies. Most of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience at conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. In addition, many of these companies have greater experience and expertise in developing and commercializing products. We cannot predict the relative competitive position of Increlex. However, we expect that the following factors, among others, will determine our ability to compete effectively: • acceptance of Increlex by physicians and patients as a safe and effective treatment; • reimbursement adoption; • product price; • manufacturing costs; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • storage requirements and ease of administration; • dosing regimen; • safety and efficacy; • prevalence and severity of side effects; and • competitive products. We believe that many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development-related activities than we do. Our competitors may discover new treatments, drugs or therapies or develop existing technologies to compete with Increlex. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if these competing products are more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than Increlex. Insmed Incorporated’s combination product, when launched commercially, will compete with Increlex for the treatment of patients with severe Primary IGFD. Insmed’s combination product was recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of patients with severe Primary IGFD or with growth hormone gene deletion who have developed neutralizing antibodies to growth hormone. Growth hormone products will likely compete with Increlex for the treatment of patients with Primary IGFD if Increlex is also approved for that indication. The major suppliers of commercially available growth hormone 24 Table of Contents products in the United States are Genentech, Eli Lilly and Company, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Novo Nordisk A/S, Pfizer Inc and Serono S.A. Investigators from a Novo Nordisk clinical trial recently presented data that demonstrated growth hormone was effective in a population that included children with Primary IGFD. In addition, children with Primary IGFD may be diagnosed as having idiopathic short stature, or ISS. Eli Lilly and Company and Genentech have received FDA approval for their respective growth hormone products for the treatment of children with ISS. Accordingly, we expect that growth hormone products will compete directly with Increlex for the treatment of children with Primary IGFD who may be diagnosed as having ISS. In addition, we are aware that Chiron Corporation has developed a process to manufacture rhIGF-1 using yeast expression and has intellectual property with respect to that process. We use bacterial expression, which differs from yeast expression, to manufacture Increlex. We believe that Bristol-Meyers Squibb Company, Genentech, Merck & Co., Inc., Novo Nordisk and Pfizer Inc have conducted research and development of orally available small molecules that cause the release of growth hormone, known as growth hormone secretagogues. We believe that Rejuvenon Corporation has licensed certain rights to Novo Nordisk’s growth hormone secretagogues and is actively developing one of these compounds for use in cancer cachexia, a wasting disorder affecting some cancer patients. Many companies are seeking to develop products and therapies for the treatment of diabetes. These competitors include multinational pharmaceutical companies, specialized biotechnology firms, and universities and other research institutions. Insmed has also conducted clinical trials using a product that contains rhIGF-1 for the treatment of diabetes. It is possible that there are other products currently in development or that exist on the market that may compete directly with Increlex. If we do not receive additional regulatory marketing approvals of Increlex, our business will be harmed. We are currently developing Increlex in clinical trials for the treatment of Primary IGFD, which has substantially more patients than severe Primary IGFD. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process and may decide that our data is insufficient to allow approval of Increlex for Primary IGFD. If we do not receive regulatory marketing approval in the United States for Primary IGFD, our business will be harmed. We will also need to file applications with regulatory authorities in foreign countries to market Increlex for Primary IGFD in foreign countries. Although we have submitted a marketing authorization application in Europe for severe Primary IGFD, there is no assurance that we will receive marketing approval in Europe for either severe Primary IGFD or Primary IGFD. If we fail to obtain European marketing approval for Increlex, the geographic market for Increlex would be limited. If such approvals are delayed, it would postpone our ability to generate revenues in Europe. If our contract manufacturers’ facilities and operations do not maintain satisfactory cGMP compliance, we may be unable to market and sell Increlex. The facilities used by and operations of our contract manufacturers to manufacture and test Increlex must undergo continuing inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP regulations in order to maintain our Increlex approval for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD. As an example, Cambrex Bio Science Baltimore, Inc. is our sole provider of bulk rhIGF-1. We have no alternative manufacturing facilities or plans for additional facilities at this time. We do not know if the Cambrex Baltimore facilities or their operations required for the commercial manufacture of Increlex will continue to receive satisfactory cGMP inspections. In the event these facilities or operations do not continue to receive satisfactory cGMP inspections for the manufacture of our product, or for the operation of their facilities in general, we may need to invest in significant compliance improvement programs, fund additional modifications to our manufacturing processes, conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing facilities, any of which would result in significant cost to us as well as result in a delay or prevention of commercialization, and may result in our failure to maintain approval. In addition, Cambrex Baltimore, and any alternative contract manufacturer we may utilize, will be 25 Table of Contents subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards. We do not have direct control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Any of these factors could delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions or regulatory approvals, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively market and sell Increlex or maintain Increlex in the marketplace, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Our inability to enter into a commercial agreement on commercially reasonable terms with a single-source manufacturer to fill-finish our approved product could adversely affect our commercial supply and ability to grow revenues. We currently source all of our fill-finish manufacturing and portions of release testing through a single-source third-party supplier. This single-source supplier is the only approved supplier currently available to us, and could only be replaced by qualification of a new site for the same operations. We are currently negotiating a commercial agreement with this fill-finish manufacturer, which has agreed to provide commercial product under an existing agreement. However, if we are unable to enter into such a commercial agreement with this single-source third-party supplier, we may be unable to fill-finish our commercial product until we could move our process to another fill-finish manufacturer. It would take a significant amount of time and expense to arrange for an alternative manufacturer. If we need to change to another commercial fill-finish manufacturer, this manufacturer’s facilities and processes, prior to our use, would have to undergo pre-approval and/or cGMP compliance inspections. In addition, we would need to transfer and validate the processes and certain analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of rhIGF-1 to this new manufacturer. Such a transfer may result in a shortage of our commercial product and a loss of revenues. We rely solely on single-source third parties in the manufacture, testing, storage and distribution of our products. We source all of our fill-finish manufacturing and testing and final product storage and distribution operations, as well as our all of our bulk manufacturing, testing, and shipping operations, through single-source third-party suppliers and contractors. Single-source suppliers are the only approved suppliers currently available to us, and could only be replaced by qualification of new sites for the same operations. If our contract facilities, contractors or suppliers become unavailable to us for any reason, including as a result of the failure to comply with cGMP regulations, manufacturing problems or other operational failures, such as equipment failures or unplanned facility shutdowns required to comply with cGMP, damage from any event, including fire, flood, earthquake or terrorism, business restructuring or insolvency, or if they fail to perform under our agreements with them, such as failing to deliver commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be delayed in manufacturing Increlex or may be unable to maintain validation of Increlex. This could delay or prevent the supply of commercial and clinical product, or delay or otherwise adversely affect revenues. If the damage to any of these facilities is extensive, or, for any reason, they do not operate in compliance with cGMP or are unable or refuse to perform under our licenses and/or agreements, we will need to find alternative facilities. The number of contract manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture rhIGF-1 bulk drug substance on a commercial scale in accordance with cGMP regulations is extremely limited, and it would take a significant amount of time and expense to arrange for alternative manufacturers. If we need to change to other commercial manufacturers, these manufacturers’ facilities and processes, prior to our use, would likely have to undergo pre-approval and/or cGMP compliance inspections. In addition, we would need to transfer and validate the processes and analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of rhIGF-1 to these new manufacturers. 26 Table of Contents We rely in certain cases on single-source and sole-source materials suppliers to manufacture Increlex. Certain specific components and raw materials used to manufacture Increlex at our third-party manufacturers are obtained and made available through either single-source or sole-source suppliers. Single-source suppliers are the only approved suppliers currently available to us, and could only be supplemented by qualification of new sources for the material required. Sole-source suppliers are the only source of supply available to us, and could only be replaced through qualification of an alternate material after demonstrating suitability. Supply interruption of these materials could result in a significant delay to our manufacturing schedules and ability to supply product, and would likely be required to undergo lengthy regulatory approval procedures prior to product distribution. Limits or termination of supply of these materials could significantly impact our ability to manufacture Increlex, cause significant supply delays while we qualified, at significant expense, new suppliers or new materials, and would consequently cause harm to our business. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing due to advance scheduling requirements and/or capacity constraints at our third-party manufacturers could harm our operating results and financial performance. The manufacture of Increlex requires successful coordination between us and all of our suppliers, contractors, service-providers, and manufacturers. Coordination failures with these different elements of our supply chain could require us to delay shipments and/or impair our ability to supply product. Furthermore, uncertainties in estimating future demand for new products such as Increlex may result in manufacture of surplus inventory requiring us to record charges for any expired, unused product, or may result in inadequate manufacturing of product inventory, causing delays to shipments or no shipments at all. Additionally, our reliance on third-party manufacturing requires long lead times from order to delivery of product, and may be hampered by available capacity at those manufacturers, making our ability to supply product supplies in excess of our forecast extremely difficult. As a consequence, we may have inadequate capacity to meet unexpected demand, which could negatively affect our operating results. Claims and concerns may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of Increlex, which could require us to perform additional clinical trials, could slow introduction into the marketplace, or cause reduced sales or product withdrawal after introduction. Increlex was approved in the United States for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD based on long-term and extensive studies and clinical trials conducted to demonstrate product safety and efficacy. Discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials, product or manufacturing processes, such as loss of sterility, contamination, new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified side effects for the product, could result in a voluntary or mandated withdrawal of the product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. Studies may result in data or evidence suggesting another product is safer, better tolerated, or more efficacious than Increlex, which could lead to reduced sales. Additionally, discovery of unknown problems with our product or manufacturing processes for our product could negatively impact the established safety and efficacy profile and result in possible reduced sales or product withdrawal. Such outcomes could negatively and materially affect our product sales, operating results, and financial condition. If other companies overcome our U.S. orphan drug marketing exclusivity or obtain marketing exclusivity in Europe, they will be able to compete with us, and our revenues will be diminished. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years. Increlex has received from the FDA orphan drug marketing exclusivity for the long-term treatment of patients with severe Primary IGFD. However, more than one product may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication or disease. As a result, even though our product has been approved and has received marketing 27 Table of Contents exclusivity for severe Primary IGFD, the FDA can still approve other drugs for use in treating the same indication or disease covered by our product, which would create a more competitive market for us. For example, the FDA recently approved Insmed Incorporated’s combination product for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD and granted Insmed’s product orphan drug designation. Accordingly, notwithstanding our orphan drug designation for rhIGF- 1, Insmed’s combination product for rhIGF-1 and BP-3 was deemed by the FDA to be a different drug than ours, and therefore, it will compete with Increlex for the treatment of patients with severe Primary IGFD, when it is launched commercially. Furthermore, drugs considered to be the same as Increlex that are clinically superior or provide a major contribution to patient care may be approved for marketing by the FDA despite our initial orphan drug marketing exclusivity. If other companies are able to overcome our U.S. orphan drug exclusivity, they will be able to compete with us, and our revenues will be diminished. We believe that Insmed’s drug has also received an orphan drug designation in Europe from the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, that covers the treatment of severe Primary IGFD. If Insmed’s or another company’s drug product is granted orphan drug marketing exclusivity for severe Primary IGFD in Europe before ours and is considered to be the same drug as ours, we would not be able to market or sell Increlex for severe Primary IGFD in Europe, and our revenues would be diminished. We will not be able to sell our products if we are not able to maintain our regulatory approval due to changes to existing regulatory requirements. Although we have obtained regulatory approval for Increlex in the United States for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD, this product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued review and ongoing regulation by the FDA post approval, including, for example, changes to manufacturing process standards or good manufacturing practices, changes to product labeling, revisions to existing requirements or new requirements for manufacturing practices, or changing interpretations regarding regulatory guidance. Such changes in the regulatory environment and requirements could occur at any time during the commercialization of Increlex. This could adversely affect our ability to maintain our approval or require us to expend significant resources to maintain our approval, which could result in the possible withdrawal of Increlex from the marketplace, which would harm our business and negatively impact our financial performance. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of products containing rhIGF-1, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Although we are not aware of any other company currently marketing rhIGF-1 in the United States for any human therapeutic indication, rhIGF-1 manufactured by other parties may be approved for use in the United States in the future. For example, we are aware that Chiron Corporation has developed a process to manufacture rhIGF-1 using yeast expression and has intellectual property with respect to that process. In the event there are other rhIGF-1 products approved by the FDA to treat indications other than those covered by Increlex, physicians may elect to prescribe a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat the indications for which Increlex has received and may receive approval. This is commonly referred to as off-label use. While under FDA regulations a competitor is not allowed to promote off-label use of its product, the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine and as a result cannot direct physicians as to what product containing rhIGF-1 to prescribe to their patients. As a result, we would have limited ability to prevent off-label use of a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat any diseases for which we have received FDA approval even if it violates our method of use patents and/or we have orphan drug exclusivity for the use of rhIGF-1 to treat such diseases. Competitors could challenge our patents and file an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) or a 505(b)(2) new drug application for an IGF-1 product and adversely affect the competitive position of Increlex. Products approved for commercial marketing by the FDA are subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or “Hatch-Waxman Act.” The Hatch-Waxman Act 28 Table of Contents provides companies with marketing exclusivity for varying time periods during which generic or modified versions of a drug may not be marketed and allows companies to apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years. It also provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired. The period of exclusive marketing, however, may be shortened if a patent is successfully challenged and defeated. Competitors with a generic IGF-1 product or a modified version of IGF-1 may attempt to file an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA and challenge our patents and marketing exclusivity. Such applications would have to certify that one of the patents in the Increlex NDA is invalid or not infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the product described in that ANDA or 505(b)(2) application under the Hatch-Waxman Act. If successful, a competitor could come to market at an earlier time than expected. We can provide no assurances that we can prevail in a challenge or litigation related to our patents or exclusivity. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may develop competing products, and our business will suffer. lf we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how, our competitors may use our inventions to develop competing products. We have licensed intellectual property rights, including patent rights, relating to rhIGF-1 technologies from Genentech. However, these patents may not protect us against our competitors. Patent litigation is very expensive, and we therefore may be unable to pursue patent litigation to its conclusion because currently we do not generate revenues. We do not have patent composition coverage on the rhIGF-1 protein alone. Although we have licensed from Genentech its rights to its methods of use and manufacturing patents, it may be more difficult to establish infringement of such patents as compared to a patent directed to the rhIGF-1 protein composition alone. Our licensed patents may not be sufficient to prevent others from competing with us. We cannot rely solely on our patents to be successful. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices use to grant patents, and the standards that United States and foreign courts use to interpret patents, are not the same and are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change, particularly as new technologies develop. As such, the degree of patent protection obtained in the United States may differ substantially from that obtained in various foreign countries. In some instances, patents have issued in the United States while substantially less or no protection has been obtained in Europe or other countries. Our United States Patent No. 6,331,414 B1 licensed from Genentech is directed to methods for bacterial expression of rhIGF-1 and expires in 2018. We have no equivalent European patent. The European Patent Office has determined that the claims of Genentech’s corresponding European patent application are not patentable under European patent law in view of public disclosures made before the application was filed. We are uncertain of the level of protection, if any, that will be provided by our licensed patents if we attempt to enforce them, and they are challenged in court where our competitors may raise defenses such as invalidity, unenforceability or possession of a valid license. For example, we initiated patent infringement proceedings against Avecia Limited and Insmed Incorporated in the United Kingdom and against Insmed Incorporated in the United States to enforce patent rights we licensed from Genentech. The United States action, among other things, alleges infringement of United States Patent No. 6,311,414 B1 identified above. If the court finds any of the patents at issue in those litigations, including United States Patent No. 6,311,414 B1, to be invalid or unenforceable, we would be prevented from enforcing such patents against third parties in the future, thus preventing us from using the affected patents to exclude others from competing with us. In addition, the type and extent of patent claims that will be issued to us in the future are uncertain. Any patents that are issued may not contain claims that will permit us to stop competitors from using similar technology. In addition to the patented technology licensed from Genentech, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information, such as the proprietary information we use to manufacture Increlex. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to this technology or information. Other parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose this 29 Table of Contents technology. We generally require each of our employees, consultants, collaborators, and certain contractors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment, consulting or collaborative relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of this technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. We may incur substantial costs as a result of patent infringement litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. In December 2004, we initiated patent infringement proceedings against Avecia Limited and Insmed Incorporated in the United Kingdom and against Insmed in the United States to enforce patent rights we licensed from Genentech. We cannot predict the outcome of such litigation. These actions have required a substantial diversion of financial and personnel resources and could expose us to liability for costs or other awards of damages. Declaratory judgments of invalidity against our patents asserted in such actions could prevent us from using the affected patents to exclude others from competing with us. In addition, a third party may claim that we are using its inventions covered by its patents and may initiate litigation to stop us from engaging in our operations and activities. Although no third party has claimed that we are infringing on their patents, patent lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party damages for having infringed the other party’s patents. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do so. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. We are aware of a U.S. patent of Chiron Corporation related to processes of manufacturing rhIGF-1 in yeast host cells, to fusion proteins, DNA, and yeast host cells useful in such processes of manufacturing rhIGF-1 in yeast host cells, and to rhIGF-1 made as a product of such processes. While we use bacterial expression, not yeast expression, in our process for manufacturing Increlex, we cannot predict whether our activities relating to the development and commercialization of Increlex in the United States will be found to infringe Chiron’s patent in the event Chiron brings patent infringement proceedings against us. We may not be able to obtain a license to Chiron’s patent under commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain a license to Chiron’s patent, and if in any patent infringement proceeding Chiron brings against us the court decides that our activities relating to the development and commercialization of Increlex in the United States infringe Chiron’s patent, the court may award damages and/or injunctive relief to Chiron. Any such damages, injunctive relief and/or other remedies the court may award could render any further development and commercialization of Increlex commercially infeasible for us or otherwise curtail or cease any further development and commercialization of Increlex. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our licensor’s issued patents or our pending applications or our licensor’s pending applications or that we or our licensors were the first to invent the technology because: • some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, • patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and • publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries and the filing of patents relating to those discoveries. 30 Table of Contents Patent applications may have been filed and may be filed in the future covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. In the event that another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our United States patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could harm our business. If we lose our licenses from Genentech, we may be unable to continue our business. We have licensed intellectual property rights and technology from Genentech, under our U.S. and International License and Collaboration agreements with Genentech. Under each agreement, Genentech has the right to terminate our license if we are in material breach of our obligations under that agreement and fail to cure that breach. Under the terms of the agreements, we are obligated, among other things, to use reasonable business efforts to meet specified milestones, including filing for regulatory approval in the United States for either a diabetes indication or a substitute indication by December 31, 2008. If we fail to use reasonable business efforts to meet our development milestones for either agreement, Genentech may terminate that agreement. If either agreement were terminated, then we would lose our rights to utilize the technology and intellectual property covered by that agreement to develop, manufacture, market and sell Increlex for any indication. This may prevent us from continuing our business. We are subject to Genentech’s option rights with respect to the commercialization of Increlex for all diabetes and non-orphan indications in the United States. Under our U.S. License and Collaboration Agreement with Genentech, Genentech has the option to elect to jointly commercialize rhIGF-1 for all diabetes and non-orphan indications in the United States. Orphan indications are designated by the FDA under the Orphan Drug Act, and are generally rare diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. With respect to those non-orphan and diabetes indications in the United States, once Genentech has exercised its option to jointly develop and commercialize, Genentech has the final decision on disputes relating to development and commercialization of such indications. Our ability to sublicense the development and commercialization of such products requires the consent of Genentech. We do not know whether our planned clinical trials will begin on time, or at all, or will be completed on schedule, or at all. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities either do not approve a clinical trial protocol or place a clinical trial on clinical hold; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect (for example, in one of our current Phase III clinical trials of rhIGF-1 in Primary IGFD, patients have not enrolled at the rate we expected); • patients experience adverse side effects; • patients develop medical problems that are not related to our products or product candidates; 31 Table of Contents • third-party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • contract laboratories fail to follow good laboratory practices; • interim results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or negative; • sufficient quantities of the trial drug may not be available, or available drug may become unusable; • our trial design, although approved, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and/or efficacy; • re-evaluation of our corporate strategies and priorities; and • limited financial resources. In addition, we may choose to cancel, change or delay certain planned clinical trials, or replace one or more planned clinical trials with alternative clinical trials. Our clinical trials or intended clinical trials may be subject to further change from time to time as we evaluate our research and development priorities and available resources. Our development costs will increase if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Significant delays for our current or planned clinical trials may harm the commercial prospects for Increlex and our prospects for profitability. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of any of our clinical trials. To gain approval to market a product for treatment of a specific disease, we must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with clinical data that demonstrate the safety and statistically significant efficacy of that product for the treatment of the disease. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and delay or failure can occur at any stage of any of our clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. If a clinical trial failed to demonstrate safety and statistically significant efficacy, we would likely abandon the development of that product, which could harm our business and may result in a precipitous decline in our stock price. If third-party clinical research organizations do not perform in an acceptable and timely manner, our clinical trials could be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the ability to conduct all of our clinical trials independently. We rely on clinical investigators, third-party clinical research organizations and consultants to perform a substantial portion of these functions. If we cannot locate acceptable contractors to run our clinical trials or enter into favorable agreements with them, or if these contractors do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, satisfy FDA requirements for the conduct of clinical trials, or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain or maintain required approvals and may be unable to market and sell Increlex on a timely basis, if at all. We may need others to market and sell Increlex in Europe. We may need others to market and sell Increlex in Europe. If we receive marketing approval for Increlex in Europe and decide to sell Increlex in Europe through one or more third parties, we will need to enter into marketing arrangements with them. We may not be able to enter into marketing arrangements with third parties on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, these arrangements could result in lower levels of income to us than if we marketed Increlex entirely on our own. In the event that we are unable to enter into a marketing arrangement for Increlex in Europe, we may not be able to develop an effective sales force to successfully market and sell our product in Europe. If we fail to enter into marketing arrangements for our product and are unable to develop an effective international sales force, our revenues could be limited. 32 Table of Contents If we fail to identify and in-license other patent rights, products or product candidates, we may be unable to grow our revenues. We do not conduct any preclinical laboratory research. Our strategy is to in-license products or product candidates and further develop them for commercialization. The market for acquiring and in-licensing patent rights, products and product candidates is intensely competitive. If we are not successful in identifying and in-licensing other patent rights, products or product candidates, we may be unable to grow our revenues with sales from new products. In addition, we may need additional intellectual property from other third parties to market and sell Increlex for indications other than severe Primary IGFD or Primary IGFD. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain a license to any third-party technology we may require to conduct our business. The committed equity financing facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge Capital Limited may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, and may require us to pay certain liquidated damages. In October 2005, we entered into a committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, with Kingsbridge Capital Limited, or Kingsbridge, which entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, newly issued shares of our common stock for cash consideration of up to an aggregate of $75.0 million, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include: • a minimum price for our common stock; • the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; • compliance with laws; • effectiveness of the registration statement, filed by us with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, for the resale of the shares of common stock issuable in connection with the CEFF and the shares of common stock underlying the warrant we issued to Kingsbridge in connection with the entering into of the CEFF; and • the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. The terms of the CEFF require us to pay certain liquidated damages in the event that the registration statement filed by us with the SEC is not available for the resale of securities purchased by Kingsbridge under the CEFF or upon exercise of the warrant we issued to Kingsbridge. Except for certain periods of ineffectiveness permitted under the CEFF, we are obligated to pay to Kingsbridge an amount equal to the number of shares purchased under the CEFF and held by Kingsbridge at the date the registration statement becomes unavailable, multiplied by any positive difference in price between the volume weighted average price on the trading day prior to such period of unavailability and the volume weighted average price on the first trading day after the period of unavailability. In addition, we are entitled in certain circumstances to deliver a “blackout” notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under the registration statement. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following a settlement of a draw down, then we must make a blackout payment to Kingsbridge as liquidated damages, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated by means of a varying percentage of an amount based on the number of shares purchased and held by Kingsbridge and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the registration statement, the blackout payment could be significant and could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to raise capital. 33 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to execute our business plan. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2005, together with the net proceeds from our public offering of common stock in January 2006 and our CEFF, will be sufficient to meet our projected operating and capital expenditure requirements through at least the end of 2007 based on our current business plan. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our operations. Our future capital needs and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to market and sell sufficient quantities of Increlex; • the status of competing products; • the commercial status of the Increlex bulk drug manufacturing operations at Cambrex Baltimore, including the success of our cGMP production activities; • the success of Increlex final drug product manufacturing; • the costs, timing and scope of additional regulatory approvals for Increlex; • the rate of progress and cost of our future clinical trials and other research and development activities; and • the pace of expansion of administrative expenses. We expect that we will require and attempt to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or from other sources, and the CEFF. However, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable. If additional funds are not available, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to implement our business plan. Our ability to implement our business plan requires an effective planning and management process. As of December 31, 2005, we had 89 full-time employees, and we expect to hire additional employees in the near term. Our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay area where competition for personnel with biopharmaceutical skills is intense. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We expect that our anticipated future growth will place a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. In particular, to fulfill our strategy to market and sell Increlex in the United States, we may need to hire a significant number of additional employees. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations, we will need to increase management resources and implement new financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth, we could be unable to execute our business strategy. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. One potential risk of using growth factors like rhIGF-1 is that it may increase the likelihood of developing cancer or, if patients already have cancer, that the cancer may develop more rapidly. Increlex may also increase the risk that diabetic patients may develop or worsen an existing retinopathy, which could lead to the need for additional therapy such as laser treatment of the eyes or result in blindness. We have Phase III study results from the treatment of 76 children with severe Primary IGFD with Increlex for an average of 4.4 years, with some patients being treated for over 12 years. None of the children withdrew from the study due to adverse events. 34 Table of Contents However, some patients experienced hypoglycemia, or low blood glucose levels. Other side effects noted in some patients include hearing deficits, enlargement of the tonsils and intracranial hypertension. There may also be other adverse events associated with the use of Increlex, which may result in product liability suits being brought against us. While we have licensed the rights to develop, market and sell Increlex in certain indications, we are not indemnified by any third party, including our contract manufacturers, for any liabilities arising out of the development or use of rhIGF-1. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity or reduced acceptance of Increlex in the market, all of which would impair our business. We have obtained clinical trial insurance and product liability insurance; however, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. Budgetary or cash constraints may force us to delay our efforts to develop certain research and development programs in favor of developing others, which may prevent us from meeting our stated timetables and completing these projects through to product commercialization. Because we are an emerging company with limited resources, and because research and development is an expensive process, we must regularly assess the most efficient allocation of our research and development resources. Accordingly, we may choose to delay or abandon our research and development efforts for the treatment of a particular indication or project to allocate those resources to another indication or project, which could cause us to fall behind our initial timetables for development. As a result, we may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our product candidates in a timely manner, since they will be delayed in reaching the market, or may not reach the market at all. We must implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. We have upgraded our finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization and to satisfy new reporting requirements. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants attesting to and reporting on these assessments. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. If we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our ability to market and sell Increlex and develop other product candidates will be harmed. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop relationships with leading academic scientists and clinicians. We are highly dependent on our current management and key medical, scientific and technical personnel, including: Dr. John A. Scarlett, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Ross G. Clark, our Chief Technical Officer, whose knowledge of our industry and technical expertise would be extremely difficult to 35 Table of Contents replace. We have at will employment contracts with all of our executive officers. They may terminate their employment without cause or good reason and without notice to us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our results do not meet analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. While research analysts and others have published forecasts as to the amount and timing of our future revenues and earnings, we have stated that we will not be providing any forecasts of the amount and timing of our future revenues and earnings until after the assessment of two quarters of product sales. Analysts who cover our business and operations provide valuations regarding our stock price and make recommendations whether to buy, hold or sell our stock. Our stock price may be dependent upon such valuations and recommendations. Analysts’ valuations and recommendations are based primarily on our reported results and their forecasts and expectations concerning our future results regarding, for example, expenses, revenues, clinical trials, regulatory marketing approvals and competition. Our future results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and we may fail to meet or exceed analysts’ forecasts and expectations as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed under the section entitled “Risks Related to Our Business” above. If our results do not meet analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they are able to control our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 66.7% of our common stock. Our greater than five percent beneficial owners include entities affiliated with MPM Capital, which beneficially owned 21.7%; entities affiliated with Prospect Management Co. II, LLC, which beneficially owned 9.7%; MedImmune, Inc., which beneficially owned 9.5%; entities affiliated with Rho Ventures, which beneficially owned 9.5%; The Bank of New York, which beneficially owned 5.9%; and State of Wisconsin Investment Board, which beneficially owned 5.6%. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their affiliates collectively have the ability to determine the election of all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and hinder a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. 36 Table of Contents In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations between us and one or more significant stockholders unless specified conditions are met, may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. The committed equity financing facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge may result in dilution to our stockholders. Pursuant to the CEFF, Kingsbridge committed to purchase, subject to certain conditions and at our election, up to $75.0 million of our common stock. Should we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of any “blackout” payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to ten percent from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in March 2004, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • announcements by us or our competitors of regulatory developments, clinical trial results, clinical trial enrollment, regulatory filings, new products and product launches, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • estimates of our business potential and earnings prospects; • deviations from analysts’ projections regarding business potential, costs and/or earnings prospects; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • significant developments in the businesses of biotechnology companies; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of biotechnology companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment or reimbursement systems, regulations or policies; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; • future sales of our common stock; • general economic, industry and market conditions; and • volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of biotechnology companies. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many biotechnology companies, which often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If the market price of our common stock declines in value, you may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. 37 Table of Contents We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Substantial sales of shares may impact the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or issued pursuant to the CEFF, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, the perceived risk of dilution from sales of our common stock to or by Kingsbridge in connection with the CEFF may cause holders of our common stock to sell their shares, or it may encourage short selling by market participants, which could contribute to a decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. As of February 1, 2006, we had 37,422,622 outstanding shares of common stock. Of these shares, the 18,975,000 shares sold in our public offerings that were outstanding as of February 1, 2006 were freely tradable without restriction or further registration, other than shares purchased by our officers, directors or other “affiliates” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, and other than shares subject to lock-up agreements that the holders of these shares entered into with the underwriter of our public offering in January 2006. These lock-up agreements expired on March 11, 2006. The remaining 18,447,622 shares outstanding as of February 1, 2006 were freely tradable (subject to certain restrictions on sales by affiliates and vesting in the case of early exercised options) other than the shares subject to the lock-up agreements referred to above. We have filed a registration statement covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options and other grants pursuant to our stock plans. In September 2005, we filed a shelf registration statement pursuant to which we may, from time-to-time, sell shares of our common stock and preferred stock, various series of debt securities and/or warrants to purchase any of such securities, either individually or in units, in one or more offerings. In November 2005, we also filed a registration statement for the resale of the shares of common stock issuable in connection with the CEFF and the shares of common stock underlying the warrant we issued to Kingsbridge in connection with our entering into the CEFF. In addition, certain holders of shares of our common stock that are parties to our amended and restated investors’ rights agreement are entitled to registration rights. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 