Item 1A. Risk Factors We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the Commission, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. These statements can be affected by, among other things, inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties or risks we currently deem immaterial. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those contained in forward looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our public statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to draw visitors to our websites and promote our products and services, such as purchased search results from online search engines, e-mail, telesales, and direct mail. We pay providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites. We also promote our products and special offers through e-mail, telesales and direct mail, targeted to repeat and potential customers. In addition, we rely heavily upon word of mouth customer referrals. If we are unable to develop or maintain an effective means of reaching small businesses and consumers, the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, our ability to attract new and repeat customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Purchasers of small business marketing products and services, including graphic design and customized printing, may not choose to shop online, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers which are necessary to the success of our business. The online market for small business marketing products and services is less developed than the online market for other business and consumer products. If this market does not gain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract customers who have historically purchased printed products and graphic design services through traditional printing operations and graphic design businesses or who have produced graphic design and printed products using self-service alternatives. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or price our services and products more competitively than we currently anticipate in order to attract additional online consumers to our websites and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include: Ÿ concerns about buying graphic design services and marketing products without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel; Ÿ the inability to physically handle and examine product samples; Ÿ delivery time associated with Internet orders; 20 Table of Contents Ÿ concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; Ÿ delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and Ÿ inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. We may not succeed in promoting, strengthening and continuing to establish the Vistaprint brand, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. Since our products and services are sold primarily through our websites, the success of our business depends upon our ability to attract new and repeat customers to our websites in order to increase business and grow our revenues. For this reason, a primary component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the Vistaprint brand. In addition to the challenges posed by establishing and promoting our brand among the many businesses that promote products and services on the Internet, we face significant competition from graphic design and printing companies marketing to small businesses who also seek to establish strong brands. If we are unable to successfully promote the Vistaprint brand, we may fail to increase our revenues. Customer awareness of, and the perceived value of, our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brand, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts. We may choose to increase our branding expense materially, but we cannot be sure that this investment will be profitable. Underperformance of significant future branding efforts could materially damage our financial results. A component of our brand promotion strategy is establishing a relationship of trust with our customers, which we believe can be achieved by providing a high-quality customer experience. In order to provide a high-quality customer experience, we have invested and will continue to invest substantial amounts of resources in our website development and technology, graphic design operations, production operations, and customer service operations. We also redesign our websites from time to time to seek and attract customers to our websites. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience is also dependent, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers, third-party carriers and communication infrastructure providers. If we are unable to provide customers with a high-quality customer experience for any reason, our reputation would be harmed and our efforts to develop Vistaprint as a trusted brand would be adversely impacted. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, and, as a result, substantially harm our business and results of operations. As a result of seasonal fluctuations in our sales, our quarterly results may fluctuate and could be below expectations. Our business has become increasingly seasonal in recent years due to increased sales of products targeted to the consumer marketplace, such as holiday cards, calendars and personalized gifts. Our second fiscal quarter, ending December 31, includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in North America and Europe and has become our strongest quarter for sales of our consumer-oriented products. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, sales during our second fiscal quarter accounted for more of our revenue and earnings than any other quarter, and we believe our second fiscal quarter is likely to continue to account for a disproportionate amount of our revenue and earnings for the foreseeable future. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our second fiscal quarter holiday season, we expect to incur significant additional expenses each year in the period leading up to and including that quarter, including expenses related to the hiring and training of temporary workers to meet our seasonal needs, additional inventory and equipment purchases, and increased marketing activities. If too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or more difficult to access or may prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, any of which could reduce the 21 Table of Contents volume of products we sell. Further, if we experience lower than expected sales during the second quarter it would likely have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results and financial condition for the full fiscal year. In the future, our seasonal sales patterns may become more pronounced or may change to the extent we introduce additional products and services targeted to the consumer marketplace, including products and services that may be unrelated to the second quarter holiday period. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to seasonality in our business caused by demand for our consumer-oriented products, our business and results of operations may be materially harmed. We are dependent upon our own facilities for the production of products sold to our customers and any significant interruption in the operations of these facilities or any inability to increase capacity at these facilities would have an adverse impact on our business. We produce all of our products internally at our facilities in Windsor, Ontario, Canada and Venlo, the Netherlands. We seek to ensure that we can satisfy all of our production demand from our facilities, including at periods of peak demand, while maintaining the level of product quality and timeliness of delivery that customers require. If we are unable to meet demand from our own facilities or to successfully expand those facilities on a timely basis to meet customer demand, we would likely turn to an alternative supplier in an effort to supplement our production capacity. However, an alternative supplier may not be able to meet our production requirements on a timely basis or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to fulfill orders in a timely fashion at a high level of product quality through our facilities and are unable to find a satisfactory supply replacement, our business and results of operations would be substantially harmed. Our quarterly financial results will often fluctuate which may lead to volatility in our share price. Our future revenues and operating results will often vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate include, among others: Ÿ seasonality-driven or other variations in the demand for our services and products; Ÿ our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers; Ÿ our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases; Ÿ business and consumer preferences for our products and services; Ÿ shifts in product mix toward lower gross margin products; Ÿ investment decisions by management made in relation to our performance against targeted earnings per share levels; Ÿ our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations; Ÿ currency fluctuations, which affect not only our revenues but also our costs; Ÿ the costs to produce our products and to provide our services; Ÿ our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; Ÿ improvements to the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing; Ÿ costs of expanding or enhancing our technology or websites; Ÿ compensation expense and charges related to our awarding of share-based compensation; Ÿ costs and charges resulting from litigation; and Ÿ a significant increase in credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products. 22 Table of Contents In addition, management investment decisions may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. We base our operating expense budgets in part on expected revenue trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office leases and personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the factors cited above, among others, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common shares will likely fall. The markets for customized marketing products and services for small businesses and custom consumer products are intensely competitive and we may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors, which could result in price reductions and/or decreased demand for our products. The markets for small business marketing products and services and consumer custom products, including the printing and graphic design market, are intensely competitive, with many existing and potential competitors, and we expect competition for online small business marketing and consumer custom products and services to increase in the future. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. The markets for small business marketing products and services and for consumer custom products traditionally are highly fragmented and geographically dispersed. The increased use of the Internet for commerce and other technical advances have allowed traditional providers of these products and services to improve the quality of their offerings, produce those products and deliver those services more efficiently and reach a broader purchasing public. Current and potential competitors include: Ÿ traditional storefront printing and graphic design companies; Ÿ office superstores, drug store chains, food retailers and other major retailers targeting small business and consumer markets such as Staples, UPS Stores, Office Depot, Costco, CVS, Schleker, Walgreens, Carrefour and Wal-Mart; Ÿ wholesale printers such as Taylor Corporation and Business Cards Tomorrow; Ÿ other online printing and graphic design companies. We are aware of many online print shops that provide printed products and services similar to ours, such as Overnight Prints, 123Print, Moo.com and UPrinting for small business marketing products and services; TinyPrints, Invitation Consultants and Fine Stationery for invitations and announcements; and Shutterfly, Snapfish, and Kodak for photo products; Ÿ self-service desktop design and publishing using personal computer software with a laser or inkjet printer and specialty paper; Ÿ other email marketing services companies such as Constant Contact and iContact; Ÿ other website design and hosting companies such as United Internet, Web.com and Network Solutions; Ÿ other suppliers of custom apparel, promotional products and customized gifts, such as Zazzle, Café Press and Customization Mall; Ÿ online photo product companies, such as Kodak Gallery, Snapfish by HP, Shutterfly and Photobox; and Ÿ other internet firms, such as Google (Picasa), Yahoo (Flickr), Amazon, Facebook, MySpace, the Knot and many smaller firms. Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, existing customer and supplier relationships, and 23 Table of Contents significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. Many of our competitors work together. For example, Taylor Corporation sells printed products through office superstores such as Staples and Office Depot. Some of our competitors who either already have an online presence or are seeking to establish an online presence may be able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. In addition, larger, more established and better capitalized entities may acquire, invest or partner with online competitors as use of the Internet and other online services increases. Competitors may also seek to develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render many of the products, services and content we offer obsolete or less competitive, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future choose to collaborate with certain of our existing and potential competitors in strategic partnerships that we believe will improve our competitive position and results of operations, such as through a retail in-store or web-based collaborative offering. It is possible, however, that such ventures will be unsuccessful and our competitive position and results of operations will be adversely affected as a result of such collaboration. Our failure to meet our customers’ price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and are likely to continue to have, a significant impact on our revenues and results of operations. We offer certain free products and services as a means of attracting customers and we offer substantial pricing discounts as a means of encouraging repeat purchases. Such free offers and discounts may not result in an increase in revenues or the optimization of profits. In addition, many factors, including our production and personnel costs and our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers’ price expectations in any given period, our business and results of operations will suffer. We depend on search engines to attract a substantial portion of the customers who visit our websites, and losing these customers would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many customers access our websites by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google and Yahoo! Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be purchased by companies and other entities in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract and direct a substantial portion of the customers we serve. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other more costly resources to replace this traffic, which, in turn, could reduce our operating and net income or our revenues, prevent us from maintaining or increasing profitability and harm our business. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, our revenues could decline and our business may suffer. The cost of purchased search listing advertising could increase as demand for these channels continues to grow quickly, and further increases could have negative effects on our ability to maintain or increase profitability. In addition, some of our competitors purchase the term “Vistaprint” and other terms incorporating our proprietary trademarks from Google and other search engines as part of their search listing advertising. European courts have, in certain cases, upheld the rights of trademark owners to prevent such practices in certain European jurisdictions. However, U.S. courts generally have not sided with the trademark owners in cases involving U.S. search engines, and Google has 24 Table of Contents refused to prevent companies from purchasing the trademark “Vistaprint” in the U.S. As a result, we may not be able to prevent our competitors from advertising to, and directly competing for, customers who search on the term “Vistaprint” on U.S. search engines. Various private ‘spam’ blacklisting or similar entities have in the past, and may in the future, interfere with our e-mail solicitation, the operation of our websites and our ability to conduct business. We depend primarily on e-mail to market to and communicate with our customers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or “spam.” Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those companies and individuals, that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses currently are listed with one or more blacklisting entities despite our belief that our commercial e-mail solicitations comply with all applicable laws. In the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with one or more blacklisting entities. We may not be successful in convincing the blacklisting entities to remove us from their lists. Although the blacklisting we have experienced in the past has not had a significant impact on our ability to operate our websites, send commercial e-mail solicitations, or manage or operate our corporate email accounts, it has, from time to time, interfered with our ability to send operational e-mails—such as password reminders, invoices and electronically delivered products—to customers and others, and to send and receive emails to and from our corporate email accounts. In addition, as a result of being blacklisted, we have had disputes with, or concerns raised by, various service providers who perform services for us, including co-location and hosting services, Internet service providers and electronic mail distribution services. There can be no guarantee that we will not continue to be blacklisted or that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our websites, and operate and manage our corporate email accounts, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. We may not succeed in cross selling additional products and services to our customers. We seek to acquire customers based on their interest in one or more of our products and then offer additional related products to those customers. If our customers are not interested in our additional products or have an adverse experience with the products they were initially interested in, the sale of additional products and services to those customers and our ability to increase our revenue and to improve our results of operations could be adversely affected. Interruptions to our website operations, information technology systems, production processes or customer service operations as a result of natural disasters, errors in our technology, capacity constraints, security breaches, contract disputes, or other causes could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our websites, transaction processing systems, network infrastructure, production facilities and customer service operations are critical to our reputation, and our ability to attract and retain customers and to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any future interruptions that result in the unavailability of our websites, 25 Table of Contents reduced order fulfillment performance or interfere with customer service operations could result in lost revenue, negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and cause our business and results of operations to suffer. We may experience temporary interruptions in our operations for a variety of reasons in the future, including human error, software errors, power loss, telecommunication failures, fire, flood, extreme weather, political instability, acts of terrorism, war, break-ins and security breaches, contract disputes, and other similar events. In particular, both Bermuda, where substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites is located in a single facility, and Jamaica, the location of most of our customer service and design service operations, are subject to a high degree of hurricane risk and extreme weather conditions that could have a devastating impact on our facilities and operations. Our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults. These errors or design faults may cause our websites to fail and result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and services. In the past, we have experienced delays in website releases and customer dissatisfaction during the period required to correct errors and design faults in our websites that caused us to lose revenue. In the future, we may encounter additional issues, such as scalability limitations, in current or future technology releases. A delay in the commercial release of any future version of our technology or implementing improvements in our infrastructure and processes could seriously harm our business. In addition, our systems could suffer computer viruses and similar disruptions, which could lead to loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. Our business requires that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the high volume of visits to our websites, particularly during promotional campaign periods and in the seasonal peak in demand that we experience in our second fiscal quarter. As our operations grow in size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our computer systems and network infrastructure to offer customers enhanced and new products, services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that our revenues will increase. Any failure of our equipment may prevent the production of orders and interfere with our ability to fulfill orders. Substantially all of our production operations are performed in two facilities: our Dutch production facility serving European and Asia-Pacific markets and our Windsor, Ontario production facility serving North American markets. We do not presently have redundant systems operational in multiple locations. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and printing systems, and because many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions of the production process may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. We do carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur in the event operations at facilities are interrupted, but these policies do not address all potential causes of business interruptions we may experience and any proceeds we may receive may not fully compensate us for all of the revenue we may lose. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we are unable to retain security authentication certificates, which are supplied by third party providers over which we exercise little or no control, our business could be harmed. We are dependent on a limited number of third party providers of website security authentication certificates that may be necessary for some of our customers’ web browsers to properly access our websites and upon which many of our customers otherwise rely in deciding whether to purchase 26 Table of Contents products and services from us. Despite any contractual protections we may have, these third party providers can disable or revoke, and in the past have disabled or revoked, our security certificates without our consent, which would render our websites inaccessible to some of our customers and could discourage other customers from accessing our sites unless we are able to procure a replacement certificate from one of a limited number of alternative third party providers. Any interruption in our customers’ ability or willingness to access our websites in the event our security certificates are disabled or otherwise unavailable for an extended period of time could result in a material loss of revenue and profits and damage to our brand. Our customers create products that incorporate images, illustrations and fonts which we license from third parties, and any loss of the right to use these licensed materials may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Many of the images, illustrations, and fonts incorporated in the design products and services we offer are the copyrighted property of other parties used by us under license agreements. If one or more of these licenses were to be terminated, the amount and variety of content available on our websites would be significantly reduced. In such event, we could experience delays in obtaining and introducing substitute materials and substitute materials might be available only under less favorable terms or at a higher cost, or may not be available at all. Any of the foregoing would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to market and sell products and services beyond our existing target markets and develop new products and services to attract new customers, our results of operations may suffer. We have developed products and services and implemented marketing strategies designed to attract small business owners and consumers to our websites and encourage them to purchase our products and services. We believe we will need to address additional markets and attract new customers to further grow our business. To access new markets and customers we expect that we will need to develop, market and sell new products and additional services that address their needs. To access new markets, we also intend to continue expansion of our marketing efforts and customer service both inside and outside of North America and to continue to introduce localized websites in different countries and languages. In addition, we intend to focus on developing new strategic relationships to expand our marketing and sales channels, such as co-branded or strategic partner-branded websites and retail in-store offerings. Any failure to develop new products and services, expand our business beyond our existing target markets and customers, and address additional market opportunities could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The development of our business since the launch of the Vistaprint.com website in April 2000 has been attributable to organic growth, but in the future we may choose to undertake acquisitions to further expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders. Our business and our customer base have been built through organic growth. Key components of our business strategy include, among others, expanding our customer base, targeting additional markets and business opportunities, and expanding our product and service offerings. To execute our expansion strategy, we expect that we will selectively pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies or services in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share. We do not have any experience making acquisitions. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services is likely to be expensive and time consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our shareholders and, in the case of debt financings, may subject us to covenants restricting the activities we may undertake in the future. If we do complete any acquisitions, 27 Table of Contents we may be unable to operate the acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations could suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies or services to acquire could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel including, in particular, Robert S. Keane, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Janet Holian, our President of Vistaprint Europe, Wendy Cebula, our President of Vistaprint North America and Michael Giannetto, our Chief Financial Officer. None of these executives are a party to an employment agreement with Vistaprint, and therefore may cease their employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The loss of one or more of these or other key employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. If we are unable to manage our expected growth and expand our operations successfully, our reputation would be damaged and our business and results of operations would be harmed. We have rapidly grown to over 1,700 full-time employees and approximately 100 temporary employees as of June 30, 2009. As of June 30, 2009, we have facilities and offices in Bermuda, the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Jamaica, Switzerland, and Canada. Our growth, combined with the geographical separation of our operations, has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and anticipated growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, reporting systems and procedures in the locations in which we operate. We expect the number of countries and facilities from which we operate to continue to increase in the future. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage expected future expansion, our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our international operations, the growth of our business could be negatively impacted. We operate production facilities in Venlo, the Netherlands and Windsor, Ontario, Canada, a customer support, sales and service, and graphic design center in Montego Bay, Jamaica, website operations in Devonshire, Bermuda, our European headquarters and marketing office in Barcelona, Spain, a technology development facility in Winterthur, Switzerland, technology development, marketing, finance and administrative operations in Lexington, Massachusetts, United States, and, effective as of July 2009, our headquarters in Paris, France, which includes the office of our President and CEO and our corporate strategy group. We have localized websites to serve many markets internationally. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we derived 39% of our revenue from our non-United States websites. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our international operations. These risks and challenges include, among others: Ÿ fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may increase the United States dollar cost of, or reduce United States dollar revenue from, operations outside of the USA; 28 Table of Contents Ÿ difficulty managing operations in, and communications among, multiple locations and time zones; Ÿ local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our business as planned; Ÿ protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers and service providers; Ÿ interpretation of complex tax laws, treaties and regulations that could expose us to unanticipated taxes on our income and increase our effective tax rate; Ÿ failure to properly understand and develop graphic design content and product formats appropriate for local tastes; Ÿ restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations; and Ÿ failure of local laws to provide a sufficient degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted by general economic and financial market conditions and such conditions may increase the other risks that affect our business. Most if not all of the markets in which we operate are currently in an economic recession that we believe has had and will continue to have a negative impact on our business. Likewise the world’s financial markets are currently experiencing significant turmoil, resulting in reductions in available credit, dramatically increased costs of credit, increased volatility in security prices, rating downgrades of investments and reduced valuations of securities generally. These events have materially and adversely impacted the availability of financing to a wide variety of businesses, including small businesses, and the resulting uncertainty has led to reductions in capital investments, overall spending levels, future product plans, and sales projections across industries and markets. These trends could have a material and adverse impact on the overall demand for our products and services and our ability to achieve targeted financial results, as well as our overall financial results from operations. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and recession in Europe, the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration the greater risks we face in operating our business. The United States government may substantially increase border controls and impose duties or restrictions on cross-border commerce that may substantially harm our business. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, we derived 61% of our revenue from sales to customers made through Vistaprint.com, our United States-focused website. We produce all physical products for our United States customers at our facility in Windsor, Ontario. Restrictions on shipping goods into the United States from Canada pose a substantial risk to our business. Particularly since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the United States government has substantially increased border surveillance and controls. We have from time to time experienced significant delays in shipping our manufactured products into the United States as a result of these controls, which has, in some instances, resulted in delayed delivery of orders. The United States also imposes protectionist measures, such as customs duties and tariffs, that limit free trade. Some of these measures may apply directly to product categories that comprise a material portion of our revenues. The customs laws, rules and regulations that we are required to 29 Table of Contents comply with are complex and subject to unpredictable enforcement and modification. If the United States were to impose further border controls and restrictions, interpret or apply regulations in a manner unfavorable to the importation of products from outside of the U.S., impose quotas, tariffs or import duties, increase the documentation requirements applicable to cross border shipments or take other actions that have the effect of restricting the flow of goods from Canada and other countries to the United States, we may have greater difficulty shipping products into the United States or be foreclosed from doing so, experience shipping delays, or incur increased costs and expenses, all of which would substantially impair our ability to serve the United States market and harm our business and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may impede our ability to build brand identity, cause confusion among our customers, damage our reputation and permit others to practice our patented technology, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our trademarks, our websites features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our websites and our production operations. As of June 30, 2009, we held 25 issued United States patents, 4 patents in other countries and we had more than 50 patent applications pending in the United States and other countries. We intend to continue to pursue patent coverage in the United States and other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is justified, appropriate, and cost efficient. There can be no guarantee that any of our pending applications or continuation patent applications will be granted. In addition, there could be infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims brought by third parties with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. For example, administrative opposition proceedings asking the European Patent Office to reconsider the allowance of one of our European patents relating to certain downloadable document design programs and methods were filed in 2005. At a hearing held in April 2008, an opposition panel of the European Patent Office indicated its intention to revoke the patent at issue, and in June, 2009, the panel issued a written opinion stating the basis for its decision. Vistaprint has appealed the decision. Any similar claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our primary brand is “Vistaprint.” We hold trademark registrations for the Vistaprint trademark in the United States, the European Union, Canada, Japan and various other jurisdictions. Our competitors or other entities may adopt names or marks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. There are several companies that currently incorporate or may incorporate in the future “Vista” into their company, product or service names, such as Microsoft Corporation’s decision to name one of its operating systems “Vista.” There could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term Vistaprint or our other trademarks, and we may institute such claims against other parties. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents If we become involved in intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs, expenses or liability, lose our exclusive rights or be required to stop certain of our business activities. A third party may sue us for infringing its intellectual property rights. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. We have, in the past, received letters from third parties that state that these third parties have patent rights that cover aspects of the technology that we use in our business and that the third parties believe we are obligated to license in order to continue to use such technology. Similarly, companies or individuals with whom we currently have a business relationship, or have had a past business relationship, may commence an action seeking rights in one or more of our patents or pending patent applications. We recently were sued for patent infringement in two unrelated Federal District Court cases in Texas. In June 2009, Vistaprint Limited, our wholly-owned subsidiary, and VistaPrint USA, Incorporated, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vistaprint Limited, together with sixteen other companies unaffiliated with Vistaprint Limited or VistaPrint USA, Incorporated, were named as defendants in a complaint for patent infringement by Soverain Software LLC in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that the defendants are infringing three U.S. Patents, two of which relate to network-based sales systems employing a customer computer, a shopping cart computer and a shopping cart database and the third of which relates to the use of session identifiers in connection with requests transmitted through a network between a client and a server. In July 2009, Vistaprint Limited and OfficeMax Incorporated were named as defendants in a complaint for patent infringement filed by ColorQuick LLC, also in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that Vistaprint Limited and OfficeMax Incorporated are infringing a U.S. patent relating to systems and methods for processing electronic files stored in a page description language format, such as PDF. In each of these two lawsuits, the plaintiff is seeking a declaration that the patents at issue are valid and enforceable, a declaration that the defendants infringe, the entry of a preliminary and permanent injunction, and damages. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts from growing our business. Potential adversaries may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations or may prevent or delay our acquisition by a third party. If any parties successfully claim that our sale, use, manufacturing or importation of technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages and attorney’s fees. Additionally, if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent, we may be liable for treble damages and a court could enjoin us from performing the infringing activity. Thus, the situation could arise in which our ability to use certain technologies important to the operation of our business would be restricted by a court order. Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party that claims infringement by us. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a third party’s patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or maintain profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. 31 Table of Contents In addition, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business in the manner discussed above. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may negatively impact our competitive position and our business. For instance, in May 2007, Vistaprint Technologies Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vistaprint Limited, initiated litigation in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota alleging infringement by 123Print, Inc. and Drawing Board (US), Inc. of certain U.S. patents owned by Vistaprint Technologies Limited, and subsequently expanded the lawsuit to include Taylor Strategic Accounts, Inc., a related party to 123Print, Inc. and Drawing Board (US), Inc., as an additional defendant. The defendants denied the infringement allegations and asserted counterclaims for declaratory judgment of invalidity, unenforceability and non-infringement of the patents. This litigation is currently stayed pending resolution of Vistaprint Technologies Limited’s requests for reexamination of the patents-in-suit before the U.S. Patent Office. In July 2006, Vistaprint Technologies Limited filed a patent infringement lawsuit against print24 GmbH, unitedprint.com AG and their two managing directors in the District Court in Düsseldorf Germany, alleging infringement by the defendants of one of our European patents. In response to Vistaprint Technologies Limited’s infringement claim, unitedprint.com AG filed a patent nullification action against us in June 2007 in German Patent Court in relation to the same European patent at issue in our infringement lawsuit against print24 and its co-defendants. On July 31, 2007, the District Court in Düsseldorf ruled in Vistaprint Technologies Limited’s favor on the underlying infringement claim against print24 and its co-defendants, granting all elements of our requested injunction and ordering the defendants to pay damages for past infringement. The Düsseldorf District Court’s ruling went into effect in early September 2007, and was not appealed by the defendants. However, on November 13, 2008, the German Patent Court held an oral hearing on the patent nullification action brought by unitedprint.com and revoked the patent at issue. The Patent Court issued a written opinion stating the basis for its ruling on March 24, 2009 and, on April 22, 2009, Vistaprint Technologies Limited filed a notice of appeal of the Patent Court’s ruling with the German Federal Supreme Court. We sell our products and services primarily through our websites and our inability to acquire or maintain domain names for our websites could result in the loss of customers which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. We sell our products and services primarily through our websites. We currently own or control a number of Internet domain names used in connection with our various websites, including Vistaprint.com and similar names with alternate URL names, such as .net, .de and .co.uk. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. If we are unable to use a domain name in a particular country, we would be forced to either purchase the domain name from the entity that owns or controls it, which we may not be able to do on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials and packaging, or elect not to sell products in that country. Any of these results could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear and subject to change. We might not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our 32 Table of Contents trademarks and other proprietary rights. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Vistaprint in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. Our revenues may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales or other taxes on purchases. We do not collect or have imposed upon us sales or other taxes related to the products and services we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and value added and similar taxes in certain jurisdictions. However, one or more jurisdictions or countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by one or more governments, including any country in which we do business or sub-federal authorities such as states in the United States, that we should be, or should have been, collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing products from us, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, decisions of the United States Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet in the United States. However, implementation of the restrictions imposed by these Supreme Court decisions is subject to interpretation by state and local taxing authorities. While we believe that these Supreme Court decisions currently restrict state and local taxing authorities in the United States from requiring us to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers located within their jurisdictions, taxing authorities could disagree with our interpretation of these decisions and could seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on us even though we are engaged in online commerce and have no physical presence in those jurisdictions. A number of states in the United States, as well as the United States Congress, have been considering or have adopted various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. A number of states, including New York, have introduced or enacted laws that create a presumption of sales tax nexus on out-of-state internet retailers that have certain commission-based advertising arrangements with in-state marketing affiliates. In January 2009, a complaint filed by Amazon.com in New York state court challenging the New York law on various constitutional grounds was dismissed by the court. If any state or local taxing jurisdiction were to disagree with our interpretation of the Supreme Court’s current position regarding state and local taxation of Internet sales, or if any of these initiatives were adopted to address the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and result in a reversal or modification of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers in the United States. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future revenue. In addition, a substantial amount of our business is derived from customers in the European Union, whose tax environment is also complex and subject to changes that would be adverse to our business. Our business is dependent on the Internet, and unfavorable changes in government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Due to our dependence on the Internet for most of our sales, regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce may have a greater impact on our operations than other more traditional businesses. Existing and future laws and regulations, including the taxation of sales through the Internet, may impede the growth of e-commerce and our ability to compete with traditional graphic designers, printers and small business marketing companies, as well as desktop printing products. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, as well as restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic 33 Table of Contents contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of applicable laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Bermuda Electronic Transactions Act 1999, the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the U.S. CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we were required to review the content that a customer incorporates into a product and interdict the shipment of products that violate copyright protections or other laws, our costs would significantly increase, which would harm our results of operations. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, our operations do not involve, for the vast majority of our sales, any human-based review of content. Although our websites’ terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to reproduce a given content and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene, or otherwise offensive, objectionable or illegal under the laws or court decisions of the jurisdiction where that customer lives or one or more jurisdictions where Vistaprint operates. There is, therefore, a risk that customers may intentionally or inadvertently order and receive products from us that are in violation of the rights of another party or a law or regulation of a particular jurisdiction. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, if we were held liable for actions of our customers, we could be required to pay substantial penalties, fines or monetary damages. Purported Federal class action lawsuits have been filed asserting substantially identical claims alleging that certain of our customers were, without their knowledge or consent, enrolled in and billed for membership discount programs offered by third party merchants on our Vistaprint.com website; and our reputation, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if we or the third party merchants are unable to successfully resolve these lawsuits or similar claims that may be brought in the future. During each of the last three fiscal years, we generated a portion of our revenue from order referral fees, revenue share and other fees paid to us by third party merchants for customer click-throughs, distribution of third-party promotional materials, and referrals arising from products and services of the third party merchants we offer to our customers on our website, which we collectively refer to as referral fees. Some of these third party referral-based offers are for memberships in discount programs or similar promotions made to customers who have purchased products from us, in which we receive a payment from the third party merchants for every customer that accepts the promotion. Certain of these third party membership discount programs have been the subject of consumer complaints, litigation, and regulatory actions alleging that the enrollment and billing practices involved in the programs violate various consumer protection laws or are otherwise deceptive. For example, various state attorneys general have brought similar consumer fraud lawsuits against certain of the third party merchants asserting that they have not adequately disclosed the terms of their offers 34 Table of Contents and have not obtained proper approval from consumers before debiting the consumers’ bank account or billing the consumers’ credit card. From time to time we receive complaints from our customers regarding certain of the membership discount programs offered on our websites. Between July 29, 2008, and September 11, 2008, a total of seven purported class action lawsuits were filed against VistaPrint USA, Inc., VistaPrint Corp. and/or Vistaprint Limited., and two third party merchants, in U.S. Federal District Court in six different states, asserting substantially identical claims alleging that the defendants violated certain Federal and state consumer protection laws in connection with the offer of membership discount programs on our Vistaprint.com website. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that after ordering products on our Vistaprint.com website they were enrolled in certain membership discount programs and that monthly subscription fees for the programs were subsequently charged directly to their credit or debit cards, in each case purportedly without their knowledge or authorization. The plaintiffs are seeking recovery of an unspecified amount of damages, including statutory and punitive damages, together with interest and legal costs, and are also seeking to prevent us and the merchants from engaging in similar practices in the future. The seven purported class action lawsuits have been transferred to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas for coordinated pretrial proceedings. On April 17, 2009, VistaPrint USA, Incorporated filed a Motion to Dismiss the Consolidated Complaint, and on July 2, 2009 the Plaintiffs filed an Opposition to VistaPrint USA, Incorporated’s Motion to Dismiss. Following that, on July 24, 2009, VistaPrint USA, Incorporated filed a reply brief in support of its Motion to Dismiss. We and the third party merchants may receive other complaints in the future regarding these types of membership discount programs. Governmental authorities also may institute proceedings alleging similar alleged misconduct. For example, on May 28, 2009, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation announced that his Committee is investigating membership discount programs marketed by Vertrue, Inc. and Webloyalty.com, Inc. through e-commerce retailers due to the high volume of consumer complaints concerning the programs. The purported class action lawsuits or any other private or governmental claims or actions that may be brought against us in the future relating to these third party membership programs could result in our being obligated to pay substantial damages or incurring substantial legal fees in defending claims. These damages and fees could be disproportionate to the revenues we generate through these relationships, which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such a defense may result in distraction of management and significant costs. In addition, customer dissatisfaction or a significant reduction in or termination of the membership discount offers on our website as a result of these claims could have a negative impact on our brand, revenues and profitability. We expect that revenues we derive from third party referral programs, particularly membership discount programs, will decrease in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 we derived approximately 5.0% of our total revenues from referral fees generated from all sources, as compared to 6.9% in 2008. In each of those fiscal years, 3.9% and 6.2%, respectively, of total Vistaprint revenue was derived from membership discount programs. We expect that referral fee revenue from all sources will account for between 2% and 5% of our total revenues by the end of calendar year 2010. Of that amount, we expect that referral fee revenue from membership discount programs will decline in absolute dollar terms over that period of time, including possibly to as low as zero. Actual referral fees, including membership discount programs, could generate more or less of our total revenues than we currently expect due to a variety of factors, including, among others, strategic operating decisions. We expect to partially offset the anticipated reductions in referral fee revenues from a variety of sources, but if we are not successful in doing so our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Our practice of offering free products and services could be subject to judicial or regulatory challenge which, if successful, would hinder our ability to attract customers and generate revenue. We regularly offer free products and services as an inducement for customers to try our products and services. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers—for example, that customers are required to pay shipping and processing charges to take advantage of a free product offer—we have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to claims from individuals or governmental regulators in Europe, the United States and other countries that our free offers are misleading or do not comply with applicable legislation or regulation. For example, in 2004, one of our subsidiaries and one of our predecessor corporations were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit, which was ultimately settled, alleging that the shipping and handling fees we charged in connection with our free business card offer violated sections of the California Business and Professions Code that limit the amount that may be charged for shipping and handling in connection with a prize or gift. In addition, customers and competitors have filed complaints with governmental and standards bodies in other jurisdictions claiming that customers were misled by the terms of our free offers. Our free product offers could be subject to additional challenges in the future. If we are subject to further actions in the future, or if we are compelled or determine to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers as the result of any such actions, our business prospects and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our failure to protect our network and the confidential information of our customers against security breaches and to address risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant prerequisite to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to prevent security breaches of our network could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly. We retain our customers’ credit card information for a limited time following a purchase of products for the purpose of issuing refunds. For customers purchasing certain subscription-based services from us, such as our website hosting service, we also retain credit card information for the purpose of undertaking recurring billing. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other related developments, among other factors, may result in a compromise or breach of our network or the technology used by us to protect our network and our customer transaction data including credit card information. Any such compromise of our network or our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. In addition, under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions conducted on our websites, such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers, because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. To date, quarterly losses from credit card fraud have not exceeded 1% of total revenues in any quarter, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Although we seek to maintain insurance to cover us against this risk, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities actually incurred as a result of such fraud or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Our failure to limit fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. 36 Table of Contents We are subject to payment-related risks. We accept payments for our products and services on our websites by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card and bank check. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud risk. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins or require that we charge our customers more for our products. We are also subject to payment card association and similar operating rules and requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules and requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Although we maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Challenges by various tax authorities to our complex international structure could, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. Our international structure is complex. Vistaprint N.V. is organized in the Netherlands. Certain management services relating to the activities of the Vistaprint group are provided by employees of our non-Dutch subsidiaries, who are based in jurisdictions other than the Netherlands. We have endeavored to structure our business so that our operations outside the Netherlands are carried out by our local subsidiaries and the business income of the Vistaprint group is, in general, not subject to tax in these jurisdictions outside the Netherlands, such as Jamaica, the United States, Canada, Spain, France, or Switzerland. Many countries’ tax laws, including United States tax law, impose taxation upon entities that are engaged in a business in that country, but do not clearly define activities that constitute being engaged in a business. The tax authorities in these countries could contend that some or all of the income of the Vistaprint N.V. group should be subject to income or other tax. If the income of the Vistaprint N.V. group is taxed in these other jurisdictions, such taxes will increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. On May 6, 2009, the Dutch Revenue Authority granted us an Advanced Tax Ruling. The Advanced Tax Ruling provides, among other things, for an exemption for Vistaprint N.V. from Dutch corporate taxes on dividend income from its subsidiaries and confirms the amount of business income of Vistaprint N.V. that should be subject to tax in the Netherlands. The Advanced Tax Ruling establishes conditions with which we need to comply to retain the benefits of the Advanced Tax Ruling, including the requirement that we perform certain management functions in the Netherlands. If we are unable to adhere to the terms of the Advanced Tax Ruling, the Dutch authorities may revoke the Advanced Tax Ruling and the result may be an increase in our effective corporate tax rate and/or Dutch dividend withholding tax due on share repurchases. If this were to occur, our expenses may increase significantly beyond what we anticipate and our business and results of operations would be adversely impacted. On May 4, 2009, the French tax authorities granted us a “headquarters” ruling (“Decision du regime des Quartiers Généraux”) with respect to our French subsidiary. The headquarters ruling 37 Table of Contents enables us, among other things, to calculate our taxable profits attributable to the French subsidiary as a fixed percentage of the subsidiary’s expenditures using the “cost-plus” method. For the purposes of this ruling, a “headquarters” is a French subsidiary of a company registered outside of France that operates within a multinational group of companies. The headquarters’ activities must involve providing the functions of executive management, management, coordination or control, for the sole benefit of the group. If we are unable to adhere to the terms of the French headquarters ruling, the French tax authorities may revoke the ruling and the result may be an increase in our effective corporate tax rate. If this were to occur, our expenses may increase significantly beyond what we anticipate and our business and results of operations would be adversely impacted. We are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we and our subsidiaries operate or are resident, including, among others, treaties between the United States, countries in the European Union, Canada and other countries. These tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. U.S. corporations are subject to United States federal income tax on the basis of their worldwide income. Non-U.S. corporations generally are subject to United States federal income tax only on income that has a sufficient nexus to the United States. On October 22, 2004, the United States enacted the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, or the AJCA. Under the AJCA, non-U.S. corporations that after March 4, 2003 complete the acquisition of substantially all of the properties of a U.S. corporation and that meet certain ownership, operational and other tests are treated as U.S. corporations for United States federal income tax purposes and, therefore, are subject to United States federal income tax on their worldwide income. The amalgamation of our predecessor U.S. corporation with Vistaprint Limited, our Bermuda subsidiary and our parent company prior to our redomestication to the Netherlands, occurred in April 2002. The AJCA grants broad regulatory authority to the Secretary of the Treasury to provide regulations as may be appropriate to determine whether a non-U.S. corporation is treated as a U.S. corporation. We do not believe that the relevant provisions of the AJCA as currently enacted apply to Vistaprint N.V., but there can be no assurance that the United States Internal Revenue Service will not challenge this position or that a court will not sustain any such challenge. Furthermore, at various times during the last few years there have been legislative proposals in the U.S. Congress which, if enacted into law, would retroactively change the March 4, 2003 AJCA measurement date to March 20, 2002. A successful challenge by the Internal Revenue Service, or a change of the March 4, 2003 date in the AJCA to an earlier date, could result in Vistaprint N.V. being subject to tax in the United States on its worldwide income, which would increase our effective rate of tax and adversely affect our results of operations. Similarly, there have been other legislative proposals introduced in the United States Congress from time to time that seek to impose taxes and similar obligations and restrictions on foreign companies with operations in the United States, such as by classifying certain foreign corporations that are managed and controlled primarily in the United States as domestic corporations for U.S. tax purposes. We cannot predict whether these or other similar legislative proposals will become law. If any such legislative proposals become law and are deemed to apply to Vistaprint N.V., our effective tax rate could increase and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our intercompany arrangements may be challenged, resulting in higher taxes or penalties and an adverse effect on our earnings. We operate pursuant to written intercompany service and related agreements, which we also refer to as transfer pricing agreements, among Vistaprint N.V. and our subsidiaries. These agreements establish transfer prices for printing, marketing, management, technology development and other services performed by these subsidiaries for Vistaprint N.V. and other group companies. Transfer prices are prices that one company in a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arm’s length. With the exception of the 38 Table of Contents transfer pricing arrangements applicable to our Dutch and French operations, our transfer pricing arrangements are not binding on applicable tax authorities and no official authority in any other country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. If tax authorities in any country were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms’ length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices. A reallocation of taxable income from a lower tax jurisdiction to a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. Changes in laws and regulations may require us to change our transfer pricings or operating procedures. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess penalties, it would result in a higher tax liability to us, which would adversely affect our earnings. We will pay taxes even if we are not profitable on a consolidated basis which would cause increased losses and further harm to our results of operations. The intercompany service and related agreements among Vistaprint N.V. and our direct and indirect subsidiaries in general guarantee that the subsidiaries realize profits. As a result, even if the Vistaprint group is not profitable on a consolidated basis, the majority of our subsidiaries will be profitable and incur income taxes in their respective jurisdictions. If we are unprofitable on a consolidated basis, as has been the case in some prior periods, this structure will increase our consolidated losses and further harm our results of operations. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Dutch withholding tax. A Dutch withholding tax may be levied on dividends and similar distributions made by Vistaprint N.V. to its shareholders at the statutory rate of 15% if we cannot structure the distributions as distributions made to shareholders in relation to a reduction of par value, which would be non-taxable for Dutch withholding tax purposes if properly structured. We have in the past, and may in the future, repurchase outstanding ordinary shares. Under our Dutch Advanced Tax Ruling, a repurchase of shares should not result in any Dutch withholding tax if we hold the repurchased shares in treasury for the purpose of issuing shares upon the exercise of certain stock awards and other potential uses. However, if the shares cannot be used for these purposes, or the Dutch tax authorities challenge the use of the shares for these purposes, such a repurchase of shares for the purposes of capital reduction may be treated as a partial liquidation subject to the 15% Dutch withholding tax to be levied on the difference between our recognized paid in capital for Dutch tax purposes and the redemption price. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company for United States tax purposes, which may subject United States shareholders to adverse tax consequences. If our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed levels provided by law for any taxable year, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are treated as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their ordinary shares. Under the PFIC rules, unless U.S. holders make an election available under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our ordinary shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our ordinary shares. 39 Table of Contents We believe that we were not a PFIC for the tax year ended June 30, 2009 and we expect that we will not become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, whether we are treated as a PFIC depends on questions of fact as to our assets and revenues that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a PFIC for our current tax year or for any subsequent year. If a United States shareholder acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to increased United States taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation that is a “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if one or more 10% U.S. Shareholders together own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting shares of the non-U.S. corporation or more than 50% of the total value of all shares of the corporation on any day during the taxable year of the corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, who owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of shares entitled to vote of the non-U.S. corporation. For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a CFC, and therefore whether the more-than-50% and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, shares owned include shares owned directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities and shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. For taxable years in which we are a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more, each of our 10% U.S. Shareholders will be required to include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our subpart F income, even if the subpart F income is not distributed to enable such taxpayer to satisfy this tax liability. Based upon our existing share ownership, we do not believe we are a CFC. Provisions of our Articles of Association, the Articles of Association of a foundation that we have established, Dutch law and an option we have granted to the foundation may make it difficult to replace or remove management and may inhibit or delay a change of control, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares, and dilute your voting power. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, provide that our shareholders may only suspend or dismiss the members of our management board and supervisory board against their wishes with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast if such votes represent more than 50% of the outstanding ordinary shares unless the proposal was made by a meeting of the supervisory board, in which case a simple majority is sufficient. The Articles also provide that if the members of our supervisory board and our management board have been nominated by a meeting of the supervisory board, shareholders may only overrule this nomination with a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast if such votes represent more than 50% of the outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, there may be circumstances in which shareholders may not be able to remove members of our management board or supervisory board even if holders of a majority of our ordinary shares favoring doing so. Our Articles provide for the possible issuance of preferred shares. We are establishing a foundation, the Stichting Continuïteit Vistaprint, which we refer to as the Foundation, whose board will consist of three members, at least two of whom are independent of Vistaprint N.V. We will grant the Foundation a call option pursuant to which the Foundation may acquire a number of preferred shares equal to the same number of ordinary shares then outstanding. The objective of the Foundation is to serve the interests of Vistaprint N.V. In carrying out this objective, the Foundation may acquire, own 40 Table of Contents and vote our preferred shares in order to maintain the independence, continuity or identity of Vistaprint N.V. If the Foundation were to exercise the call option, it may prevent a change of control or delay or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Exercise of the preferred share option would also effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one-half. In addition, our management board has been granted the right to issue preferred shares up to an amount equal to the number of ordinary shares under our authorized share capital. This authorization must be renewed by our shareholders at least every five years. We have limited flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. Dutch law allows our shareholders to grant the management board the authority to issue ordinary shares as it determines appropriate without obtaining specific shareholder approval for each issuance, but this authorization is limited to the number of ordinary shares under our authorized share capital and must be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Dutch law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares. Dutch law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions, such as the approval of dividends. Situations may arise where the flexibility to issue shares, pay dividends or take other corporate actions without a shareholder vote would be beneficial to the us, but is not available under Dutch law. Because of our articles of association and our organization under Dutch law, you may find it difficult to pursue legal remedies against the members of our supervisory board or management board. Our Articles and our internal corporate affairs are governed by Dutch law. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of the supervisory board and management board that direct our affairs are different from those established under the statutes and judicial precedents of the United States. For example, class action lawsuits and derivative lawsuits are generally not available under Dutch law. You may find it more difficult to protect your interests against actions by members of our supervisory board or management board than you would if we were a U.S. corporation. Under Dutch law, the supervisory board and the management board are responsible for acting in the best interests of the company, its business and all of its stakeholders generally, which includes shareholders, employees, customers and creditors, not just shareholders. Furthermore, under our Articles, we are obligated to indemnify the members of our supervisory board and our management board against liabilities resulting from proceedings against such members in connection with their membership on either board, if such member acted in good faith and in a manner he believed to be in our best interests and such member has not been adjudged in a final and non-appealable judgment by a Dutch judge to be liable for gross negligence or willful misconduct, subject to various exceptions. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and the majority of our assets are located outside the United States, which may make it difficult for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of our management board and our officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons, or to enforce outside the U.S. judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts, in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for shareholders to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights 41 Table of Contents predicated upon the U.S. securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in the Netherlands, such party may submit to the Dutch court the final judgment which has been rendered in the United States. If the Dutch court finds that the jurisdiction of the federal or state court in the United States has been based on grounds which are internationally acceptable and that proper legal procedures have been observed, the Dutch court will, in principle, give binding effect to the final judgment which has been rendered in the United States unless such judgment contravenes Dutch principles of public policy. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. shareholders will be able to enforce against us, members of our management board or supervisory board or officers who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our management board or supervisory board or our officers in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such members or officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 