Risk Factors We caution you that our actual future results may vary materially from those contained in forward looking statements that we make in this Report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements due to the following important factors, among others. Our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. These statements can be affected by, among other things, inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties or risks we currently deem immaterial. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to draw visitors to our websites and promote our products and services, such as purchased search results from online search engines, e-mail, telesales, and direct mail. We pay providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites. We also promote our products and special offers through e-mail, telesales and direct mail, targeted to repeat and potential customers. In addition, we rely heavily upon word of mouth customer referrals. If we are unable to develop or maintain an effective means of reaching micro businesses and consumers, the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, then our ability to attract new and repeat customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites would be reduced, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Purchasers of micro business marketing products and services, including graphic design and customized printing, may not choose to shop online, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers that are necessary to the success of our business. The online market for micro business marketing products and services is less developed than the online market for other business and consumer products. If this market does not gain or maintain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to 17 Table of Contents attract customers who have historically purchased printed products and graphic design services through traditional printing operations and graphic design businesses or who have produced graphic design and printed products using self-service alternatives. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or price our services and products more competitively than we currently anticipate in order to attract additional online consumers to our websites and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include: • concerns about buying graphic design services and marketing products without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel; • the inability to physically handle and examine product samples; • delivery time associated with Internet orders; • concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; • delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and • the inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. We may not succeed in promoting, strengthening and continuing to establish the Vistaprint brand, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. Since our products and services are sold primarily through our websites, the success of our business depends upon our ability to attract new and repeat customers to our websites in order to increase business and grow our revenues. For this reason, a primary component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the Vistaprint brand. In addition to the challenges posed by establishing and promoting our brand among the many businesses that promote products and services on the Internet, we face significant competition from graphic design and printing companies marketing to micro businesses who also seek to establish strong brands. If we are unable to successfully promote the Vistaprint brand, we may fail to increase our revenues. Customer awareness of, and the perceived value of, our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brand, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts. We may choose to increase our branding expense materially, but we cannot be sure that this investment will be profitable. Underperformance of significant future branding efforts could materially damage our financial results. A component of our brand promotion strategy is establishing a relationship of trust with our customers, which we believe can be achieved by providing a high-quality customer experience. In order to provide a high-quality customer experience, we have invested and will continue to invest substantial amounts of resources in our website development and technology, graphic design operations, production operations, and customer service operations. We also redesign our websites from time to time to attract customers. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience is also dependent, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers, third-party carriers and communication infrastructure providers. If we are unable to provide customers with a high-quality customer experience for any reason, our reputation would be harmed, and our efforts to develop Vistaprint as a trusted brand would be adversely impacted. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, and, as a result, substantially harm our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our quarterly financial results will often fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our share price. Our revenues and operating results often vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate include, among others: • seasonality-driven or other variations in the demand for our services and products; • currency fluctuations, which affect our revenues and our costs; • our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers; • our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases; • business and consumer preferences for our products and services; • shifts in product mix toward lower gross margin products; • our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations; • costs to produce our products and to provide our services; • our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; • improvements to the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing; • costs of expanding or enhancing our technology or websites; • compensation expense and charges related to our awarding of share-based compensation; • costs and charges resulting from litigation; and • a significant increase in credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products. In addition, management investment decisions may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. For instance, since we seek to deliver on annual earnings per share objectives, and not quarterly, we may choose to make discretionary, above planned investments that result in lower than anticipated quarterly earnings and/or quarterly earnings that are lower than provided in prior quarterly guidance. We base our operating expense budgets in part on expected revenue trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office leases and personnel costs, are relatively fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the factors cited above, among others, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our ordinary shares will likely fall. Seasonal fluctuations in our business place a strain on our operations and resources. Our business has become increasingly seasonal in recent years due to increased sales of products targeted to the consumer marketplace, such as holiday cards, calendars and personalized gifts. Our second fiscal quarter, ending December 31, includes the majority of the holiday shopping 19 Table of Contents season and has become our strongest quarter for sales of our consumer-oriented products. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, sales during our second fiscal quarter accounted for more of our revenue and earnings than any other quarter, and we believe our second fiscal quarter is likely to continue to account for a disproportionate amount of our revenue and earnings for the foreseeable future. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our second fiscal quarter holiday season, we expect to incur significant additional capacity related expenses each year to meet our seasonal needs including facility expansions, equipment purchases and increases in the number of temporary and permanent employees. If we experience lower than expected sales during the second quarter, it would likely have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results and financial condition for the full fiscal year. In the future, our seasonal sales patterns may become more pronounced or may change to the extent we introduce additional products and services targeted to the consumer marketplace, including products and services that may be unrelated to the second quarter holiday period. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to seasonality in our business caused by demand for our consumer-oriented products, our business and results of operations may be materially harmed. A significant portion of our revenues and operations are transacted in currencies other than the United States dollar, our reporting currency. We therefore have currency exchange risk. We have substantial revenues and operations transacted in currencies other than our reporting currency. As a result, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may impact the translation of our revenues and expenses, remeasurement of our intercompany balances, and the value of our cash and cash equivalents denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For example, when currency exchange rates are unfavorable with respect to the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our revenue and operating income recorded in other currencies is diminished. As we have expanded our international revenues and operations, our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations has increased. Our revenue and results of operations may differ materially from expectations as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. We are dependent upon our own facilities for the production of our products, and any significant interruption in the operations of these facilities or any inability to increase capacity at these facilities would have an adverse impact on our business. We produce the vast majority of our products internally. We seek to ensure that we can satisfy all of our production demand from our facilities, including at periods of peak demand, while maintaining the level of product quality and timeliness of delivery that customers require. We have not identified alternatives to these facilities to serve us in the event of a labor strike, work stoppage or other issue with our workforce in one or more of our facilities or the loss or substantial damage to one or more of our facilities due to fire, natural disaster or other events. If we are unable to meet demand from our own facilities or to successfully expand those facilities on a timely basis to meet customer demand, we would likely turn to an alternative supplier in an effort to supplement our production capacity. However, an alternative supplier may not be able to meet our production requirements on a timely basis or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to fulfill orders in a timely fashion at a high level of product quality through our facilities and are unable to find a satisfactory supply replacement, our business and results of operations would be substantially harmed. Interruptions to our website operations, information technology systems, production processes or customer service operations for any reason could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our websites, transaction processing systems, network infrastructure, production facilities and customer service operations are critical to our reputation and to our ability to attract and retain customers and to maintain adequate customer service levels. Expanding our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, 20 Table of Contents with no assurance that our revenues will increase. Any interruptions that cause any of our websites to be unavailable, reduce our order fulfillment performance or interfere with customer service operations could result in lost revenue and negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand, and cause our business and results of operations to suffer. A number of factors or events could cause interruptions or interference in our websites or operations, including: • human error, software errors, power loss, telecommunication failures, fire, flood, extreme weather, political instability, acts of terrorism, war, break-ins and security breaches, contract disputes, and other similar events. In particular, both Bermuda, where substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites is located in a single facility, and Jamaica, the location of most of our customer service and design service operations, are subject to a high degree of hurricane risk and extreme weather conditions. • undetected errors or design faults in our technology, infrastructure and processes that may cause our websites to fail. In the past, we have experienced delays in website releases and customer dissatisfaction during the period required to correct errors and design faults in our websites that caused us to lose revenue. In the future, we may encounter additional issues, such as scalability limitations, in current or future technology releases. • our failure to maintain adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the high volume of visits to our websites, particularly during promotional campaign periods and in the seasonal peak in demand that we experience in our second fiscal quarter. We do not presently have redundant systems operational in multiple locations. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and production systems, and because many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions of the production process may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. We do carry business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur if operations at our facilities are interrupted, but these policies do not address all potential causes of business interruptions we may experience, and any proceeds we may receive may not fully compensate us for all of the revenue we may lose. We face intense competition. The markets for small business marketing products and services and consumer custom products, including the printing and graphic design market, are intensely competitive, highly fragmented and geographically dispersed, with many existing and potential competitors. We expect competition for online small business marketing and consumer custom products and services to increase in the future. The increased use of the Internet for commerce and other technical advances have allowed traditional providers of these products and services to improve the quality of their offerings, produce and deliver those products and services more efficiently and reach a broader purchasing public. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Current and potential competitors include: • traditional storefront printing and graphic design companies; • office superstores, drug store chains, food retailers and other major retailers targeting small business and consumer markets, such as Staples, UPS Stores, Office Depot, Costco, CVS, Schleker, Walgreens, Carrefour and Wal-Mart; • wholesale printers such as Taylor Corporation and Business Cards Tomorrow; • other online printing and graphic design companies, many of which provide printed products and services similar to ours, such as Overnight Prints, 123Print, Moo.com and 21 Table of Contents UPrinting for small business marketing products and services; TinyPrints, Invitation Consultants and Fine Stationery for invitations and announcements; • self-service desktop design and publishing using personal computer software with a laser or inkjet printer and specialty paper; • other email marketing services companies such as Constant Contact and iContact; • other website design and hosting companies such as United Internet, Web.com and Network Solutions; • other suppliers of custom apparel, promotional products and customized gifts, such as Zazzle, Café Press and Customization Mall; • online photo product companies, such as Kodak Gallery, Snapfish by HP, Shutterfly and Photobox; and • other internet firms, such as Google (Picasa), Yahoo (Flickr), Amazon, Facebook, MySpace, the Knot and many smaller firms. Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, existing customer and supplier relationships, and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. Many of our competitors work together. For example, Taylor Corporation sells printed products through office superstores such as Staples and Office Depot. Some of our competitors that either already have an online presence or are seeking to establish an online presence may be able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. In addition, larger, more established and better capitalized entities may acquire, invest or partner with online competitors as use of the Internet and other online services increases. Competitors may also seek to develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render many of the products, services and content we offer obsolete or less competitive, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future choose to collaborate with certain of our existing and potential competitors in strategic partnerships that we believe will improve our competitive position and results of operations, such as through a retail in-store or web-based collaborative offering. It is possible, however, that such ventures will be unsuccessful and that our competitive position and results of operations will be adversely affected as a result of such collaboration. Our failure to meet our customers’ price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and are likely to continue to have, a significant impact on our revenues and results of operations. We offer certain free products and services as a means of attracting customers, and we offer substantial pricing discounts as a means of encouraging repeat purchases. These free offers and discounts may not result in an increase in our revenues or the optimization of our profits. In addition, many factors, including our production and personnel costs and our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers’ price expectations in any given period, our business and results of operations will suffer. 22 Table of Contents We depend on search engines to attract a substantial portion of the customers who visit our websites, and losing these customers would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many customers access our websites by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. These search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be purchased by companies and other entities in order to attract users to their websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract and direct a substantial portion of the customers we serve. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings and to maximize the advertising revenue generated by those listings. If the search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other more costly resources to replace this traffic. This could reduce our operating and net income or our revenues, prevent us from maintaining or increasing profitability and harm our business. If one or more search engines on which we rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, our revenues could decline, and our business may suffer. The cost of purchased search listing advertising could increase as demand for these channels continues to grow quickly, and further increases could have negative effects on our ability to maintain or increase profitability. In addition, some of our competitors purchase the term “Vistaprint” and other terms incorporating our proprietary trademarks from Google and other search engines as part of their search listing advertising. Courts do not always side with the trademark owners in cases involving search engines, and Google has refused to prevent companies from purchasing the trademark “Vistaprint.” As a result, we may not be able to prevent our competitors from advertising to, and directly competing for, customers who search on the term “Vistaprint” on search engines. Various private ‘spam’ blacklisting and similar entities have in the past, and may in the future, interfere with our e-mail solicitation, the operation of our websites and our ability to conduct business. We depend primarily on e-mail to market to and communicate with our customers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or “spam.” Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, as well as the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those companies and individuals, that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses are currently listed with one or more blacklisting entities despite our belief that our commercial e-mail solicitations comply with all applicable laws. In the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with one or more blacklisting entities. We may not be successful in convincing the blacklisting entities to remove us from their lists. Although the blacklisting we have experienced in the past has not had a significant impact on our ability to operate our websites, send commercial e-mail solicitations, or manage or operate our corporate email accounts, it has, from time to time, interfered with our ability to send operational e-mails—such as password reminders, invoices and electronically delivered products—to customers and others, and to send and receive emails to and from our corporate email accounts. In addition, as a result of being 23 Table of Contents blacklisted, we have had disputes with, or concerns raised by, various service providers who perform services for us, including co-location and hosting services, Internet service providers and electronic mail distribution services. We are currently on certain blacklists and there can be no guarantee that we will not be put on additional blacklists in the future or that we will succeed in removing ourselves from blacklists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our websites, and operate and manage our corporate email accounts, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. We may not succeed in cross selling additional products and services to our customers. We seek to acquire customers based on their interest in one or more of our products and then offer additional related products to those customers. If our customers are not interested in our additional products or have an adverse experience with the products they were initially interested in, the sale of additional products and services to those customers and our ability to increase our revenue and to improve our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain security authentication certificates, which are supplied by third party providers over which we exercise little or no control, our business could be harmed. We are dependent on a limited number of third party providers of website security authentication certificates that may be necessary for some of our customers’ web browsers to properly access our websites and upon which many of our customers otherwise rely in deciding whether to purchase products and services from us. Despite any contractual protections we may have, these third party providers can disable or revoke, and in the past have disabled or revoked, our security certificates without our consent, which would render our websites inaccessible to some of our customers and could discourage other customers from accessing our sites, unless we are able to procure a replacement certificate from one of a limited number of alternative third party providers. Any interruption in our customers’ ability or willingness to access our websites if our security certificates are disabled or otherwise unavailable for an extended period of time could result in a material loss of revenue and profits and damage to our brand. Our customers create products that incorporate images, illustrations and fonts that we license from third parties, and any loss of the right to use these licensed materials may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Many of the images, illustrations, and fonts incorporated in the design products and services we offer are the copyrighted property of other parties that we use under license agreements. If one or more of these licenses were terminated, the amount and variety of content available on our websites would be significantly reduced. In such an event, we could experience delays in obtaining and introducing substitute materials, and substitute materials might be available only under less favorable terms or at a higher cost, or may not be available at all. The termination of one or more of these licenses covering a significant amount of content could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to market and sell products and services beyond our existing target markets and develop new products and services to attract new customers, our results of operations may suffer. We have developed products and services and implemented marketing strategies designed to attract micro business owners and consumers to our websites and encourage them to purchase our products and services. We believe we will need to address additional markets and attract new customers to further grow our business. To access new markets and customers we expect that we will need to develop, market and sell new products and services. We also intend to continue the 24 Table of Contents geographic expansion of our marketing efforts and customer service operations and the introduction of localized websites in different countries and languages. In addition, we intend to develop new strategic relationships to expand our marketing and sales channels, such as co-branded or strategic partner-branded websites and retail in-store offerings. Any failure to develop new products and services, expand our business beyond our existing target markets and customers, and address additional market opportunities could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel including, in particular, Robert S. Keane, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Wendy Cebula, our President of Vistaprint North America, Michael Giannetto, our Chief Financial Officer and Janet Holian, our President of Vistaprint Europe. Any of these executives may cease their employment with us at any time with minimal advance notice. The loss of one or more of these or other key employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. If we are unable to manage our expected growth and expand our operations successfully, our reputation would be damaged and our business and results of operations would be harmed. We have rapidly grown to approximately 2,200 full-time employees and approximately 170 temporary employees as of June 30, 2010 and have production facilities or offices in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, France, Germany, India, Jamaica, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Tunisia and the United States. Our growth, combined with the geographical separation of our operations, has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management, administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and anticipated growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, reporting systems and procedures in the locations in which we operate. We expect the number of countries and facilities from which we operate to continue to increase in the future. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage expected future expansion, our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our international operations, the growth of our business could be negatively impacted. We operate production facilities or offices in Australia, Bermuda, Canada, France, Germany, India, Jamaica, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Tunisia and the United States. We have localized websites to serve many markets internationally. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, we derived 45% of our revenue from our non-United States websites. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our international operations. These risks and challenges include, among others: • difficulty managing operations in, and communications among, multiple locations and time zones; • local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our business as planned; 25 Table of Contents • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers and service providers; • interpretation of complex tax laws, treaties and regulations that could expose us to unanticipated taxes on our income and increase our effective tax rate; • failure to properly understand and develop graphic design content and product formats appropriate for local tastes; • restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations; and • failure of local laws to provide a sufficient degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Acquisitions may be disruptive to our business. Our business and our customer base have been built primarily through organic growth. However, from time to time we may selectively pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies or services in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share, such as our acquisition of Soft Sight, Inc., or Soft Sight, in December 2009. We have very limited experience making acquisitions. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services may be expensive and time consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we were to raise funds through an equity financing, such a financing would result in dilution to our shareholders. If we were to raise funds through a debt financing, such a financing may subject us to covenants restricting the activities we may undertake in the future. We may be unable to operate any acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate newly acquired businesses, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations could suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies or services to acquire could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Acquisitions could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted by general economic and financial market conditions, and such conditions may increase the other risks that affect our business. Despite recent signs of economic recovery in some markets, many of the markets in which we operate are still in an economic downturn that we believe has had and will continue to have a negative impact on our business. Turmoil in the world’s financial markets materially and adversely impacted the availability of financing to a wide variety of businesses, including micro businesses, and the resulting uncertainty led to reductions in capital investments, marketing expenditures, overall spending levels, future product plans, and sales projections across industries and markets. These trends could have a material and adverse impact on the demand for our products and services and our financial results from operations. The United States government may substantially increase border controls and impose duties or restrictions on cross-border commerce that may substantially harm our business. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, we derived 55% of our revenue from sales to customers made through Vistaprint.com, our United States-focused website. We produce all physical 26 Table of Contents products for our United States customers at our facility in Windsor, Ontario. Restrictions on shipping goods into the United States from Canada pose a substantial risk to our business. Particularly since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the United States government has substantially increased border surveillance and controls. We have from time to time experienced significant delays in shipping our manufactured products into the United States as a result of these controls, which has, in some instances, resulted in delayed delivery of orders. The United States also imposes protectionist measures, such as customs duties and tariffs, that limit free trade. Some of these measures may apply directly to product categories that comprise a material portion of our revenues. The customs laws, rules and regulations that we are required to comply with are complex and subject to unpredictable enforcement and modification. If the United States were to impose further border controls and restrictions, interpret or apply regulations in a manner unfavorable to the importation of products from outside of the U.S., impose quotas, tariffs or import duties, increase the documentation requirements applicable to cross border shipments or take other actions that have the effect of restricting the flow of goods from Canada and other countries to the United States, we may have greater difficulty shipping products into the United States or be foreclosed from doing so, experience shipping delays, or incur increased costs and expenses, all of which would substantially impair our ability to serve the United States market and harm our business and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may impede our ability to build brand identity, cause confusion among our customers, damage our reputation and permit others to practice our patented technology, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our trademarks, our websites features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our websites and our production operations. As of June 30, 2010, we had 47 issued patents and more than 50 patent applications pending in the United States and other countries. We intend to continue to pursue patent coverage in the United States and other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is justified, appropriate, and cost efficient. There can be no guarantee that any of our pending applications or continuation patent applications will be granted. In addition, there could be infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims brought by third parties with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. For example, administrative opposition proceedings asking the European Patent Office to reconsider the allowance of one of our European patents relating to certain downloadable document design programs and methods were filed in 2005. At a hearing held in April 2008, an opposition panel of the European Patent Office indicated its intention to revoke the patent at issue, and in June 2009, the panel issued a written opinion stating the basis for its decision. Vistaprint has appealed the decision. Any similar claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our primary brand is “Vistaprint.” We hold trademark registrations for the Vistaprint trademark in 21 jurisdictions, including registrations in our major markets of the United States, the European Union, Canada, Australia and Japan. Our competitors or other entities may adopt names or marks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. There are several companies that currently incorporate or may incorporate in the future “Vista” into their company, 27 Table of Contents product or service names. There could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term Vistaprint or our other trademarks, and we may institute such claims against other parties. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are costly and could cause us to lose our exclusive rights or be subject to liability or require us to stop some of our business activities. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or disputes in which third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights or improperly obtained or used their confidential or proprietary information. In addition, from time to time we receive letters from third parties that state that these third parties have patent rights that cover aspects of the technology that we use in our business and that the third parties believe we are obligated to license in order to continue to use such technology. Similarly, companies or individuals with whom we currently have a business relationship, or have had a past business relationship, may commence an action seeking rights in one or more of our patents or pending patent applications. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation diverts our management’s efforts from growing our business. Potential adversaries may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If any parties successfully claim that our sale, use, manufacturing or importation of technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay significant damages and attorney’s fees, and a court could enjoin us from performing the infringing activity. Thus, the situation could arise in which our ability to use certain technologies important to the operation of our business would be restricted by a court order. Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party that claims infringement by us. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a third party’s patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or maintain profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. In addition, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business in the manner discussed above. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may negatively impact our competitive position and our business. You can find information about certain lawsuits that we have filed to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights and that have been filed against us for alleged infringement of other parties’ intellectual property rights in the section of this Report entitled, “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” 28 Table of Contents We sell our products and services primarily through our websites. If we are unable to acquire or maintain domain names for our websites, then we could lose customers, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. We sell our products and services primarily through our websites. We currently own or control a number of Internet domain names used in connection with our various websites, including Vistaprint.com and similar names with alternate URL names, such as .net, .de and .co.uk. Domain names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. If we are unable to use a domain name in a particular country, then we would be forced to purchase the domain name from the entity that owns or controls it, which we may not be able to do on commercially acceptable terms or at all; incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials and packaging; or elect not to sell products in that country. Any of these results could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear and subject to change. We might not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Vistaprint in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. Our revenues may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales, value added or other taxes on internet sales. In many jurisdictions where we sell products and services, we do not collect or have imposed upon us sales, value added or other consumption taxes, which we refer to as indirect taxes. The application of indirect taxes to ecommerce businesses such as Vistaprint is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. Bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that could affect the ability of state governments to require out of state internet retailers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods and certain services. The imposition by national, state or local governments, whether within or outside the United States, of various taxes upon internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future revenue. Additionally, a successful assertion by one or more governments in jurisdictions where we are not currently collecting sales or value added taxes that we should be, or should have been, collecting indirect taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing products from us, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or otherwise negatively impact our results of operations. Our business is dependent on the Internet, and unfavorable changes in government regulation of the Internet, e-commerce and email marketing could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Due to our dependence on the Internet for our sales, regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce and email marketing may have a greater impact on our operations than other more traditional businesses. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of e-commerce and our ability to compete with traditional graphic designers, printers and small business marketing companies, as well as desktop printing products. These regulations and laws may cover taxation (as discussed above), restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, commercial email, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing many of these issues apply to the Internet and e-commerce, as the vast 29 Table of Contents majority of applicable laws were adopted before the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Bermuda Electronic Transactions Act 1999, the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the U.S. CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts, and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we were required to review the content that our customers incorporate into our products and interdict the shipment of products that violate copyright protections or other laws, our costs would significantly increase, which would harm our results of operations. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, our operations do not involve any human-based review of content for the vast majority of our sales. Although our websites’ terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to reproduce a given content and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene, or otherwise objectionable or illegal under the laws of the jurisdiction(s) where that customer lives or where we operate. There is, therefore, a risk that customers may intentionally or inadvertently order and receive products from us that are in violation of the law or the rights of another party. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, if we were held liable for actions of our customers, we could be required to pay substantial penalties, fines or monetary damages. We expect that revenues we derive from third party referral programs will decrease in the future due to our termination of membership discount program offerings, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended June 30, 2010 we derived approximately 1.9% of our total revenues from referral fees generated from all sources, as compared to 5.0% for the year ended June 30, 2009. We removed the membership discount program offerings from our websites in November 2009 and terminated our relationship with the third party merchant responsible for these programs. As a result, for the year ended June 30, 2010, 0.8% of our revenue was derived from third party membership discount programs as compared to 3.9% in the same prior year period. In the future, referral fees could generate more or less of our total revenues due to a variety of factors, including, among others, new product and service offering decisions or customers’ acceptance of our partner offers. We expect to partially offset any anticipated reductions in referral fee revenues from a variety of sources, but if we are not successful in doing so our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Purported Federal class action lawsuits have been filed alleging that certain of our customers were, without their knowledge or consent, enrolled in and billed for membership discount programs previously offered by third party merchants on our Vistaprint.com website. If we or the third party merchants are unable to successfully resolve these lawsuits or similar claims that may be brought in the future, our reputation, revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. During each of the last three fiscal years, we generated a small portion of our revenue from order referral fees, revenue share and other fees paid to us by third party merchants for customer click-throughs, distribution of third party promotional materials, and referrals arising from products and services of the third party merchants we offer to our customers on our website, which we collectively 30 Table of Contents refer to as referral fees. Some of these third party referral-based offers were for memberships in discount programs or similar promotions made to customers who have purchased products from us, in which we received a payment from a third party merchant for every customer that accepted the promotion. Some of these third party membership discount programs have been, and may continue to be, the subject of consumer complaints, litigation, and governmental regulatory actions alleging that the enrollment and billing practices involved in the programs violate various consumer protection laws or are otherwise deceptive. For example, various state attorneys general have brought consumer fraud lawsuits against certain of the third party merchants asserting that they have not adequately disclosed the terms of their offers and have not obtained proper approval from consumers before debiting the consumers’ bank account or billing the consumers’ credit card. Similarly, in May 2009, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, announced that the Commerce Committee was investigating membership discount programs marketed by third party merchants Vertrue, Inc., Webloyalty.com, Inc. and Affinion Group, Inc. through e-commerce retailers, and in June 2010 the Commerce Committee approved proposed legislation that seeks to regulate certain aspects of the membership programs. From time to time we have received complaints from our customers and inquiries by state attorneys general and government agencies regarding the membership discount programs previously offered on our websites. Although we removed all such membership discount program offerings from our websites as of November 2009 and terminated our relationship with the third party merchant responsible for these programs, we have continued to receive complaints and inquiries about these programs. In addition, we are currently involved in several purported class action lawsuits that were filed against us and two affiliated third party merchants, which lawsuits have been consolidated into one suit, alleging that we and the merchants violated certain Federal and state consumer protection laws in connection with the offer of membership discount programs on our Vistaprint.com website. You can find more information about this lawsuit in the section of this Report entitled, “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” We and the third party merchants may receive other complaints in the future regarding these types of membership discount programs. The purported class action lawsuits or any other private or governmental claims or actions that may be brought against us in the future relating to these third party membership programs could result in our being obligated to pay substantial damages or incurring substantial legal fees in defending claims. These damages and fees could be disproportionate to the revenues we generated through these relationships, which would have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such a defense may result in distraction of management and significant costs. In addition, customer dissatisfaction or damage to our reputation as a result of these claims could have a negative impact on our brand, revenues and profitability. Our practice of offering free products and services could be subject to judicial or regulatory challenge, which, if successful, would hinder our ability to attract customers and generate revenue. We regularly offer free products and services as an inducement for customers to try our products and services. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers—for example, that customers are required to pay shipping and processing charges to take advantage of a free product offer—we have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to claims by individuals or governmental regulators in Europe, the United States and other countries that our free offers are misleading or do not comply with applicable legislation or regulation. In addition, customers and competitors have filed complaints with governmental and standards bodies claiming that customers were misled by the terms of our free offers. If our free product offers are subject to further challenges or actions in the future, or if we are compelled or determine to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers as the result of any such actions, our business prospects and results of operations could be materially harmed. 31 Table of Contents Our failure to protect our network and the confidential information of our customers against security breaches and to address risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant prerequisite to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to prevent security breaches of our network could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly. We retain the credit card information of all of our customers for a limited period of time for the purpose of issuing refunds and of our subscription customers for a longer period of time for the purpose of recurring billing. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other related developments, among other factors, may result in a compromise or breach of our network or the technology that we use to protect our network and our customer transaction data including credit card information. Any such compromise of our network or our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. In addition, under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions conducted on our websites, such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers, because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. To date, quarterly losses from credit card fraud have not exceeded 1% of total revenues in any quarter, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Although we seek to maintain insurance to cover us against this risk, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities actually incurred as a result of such fraud or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Our failure to limit fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to customer payment-related risks. We accept payments for our products and services on our websites by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card and bank check. In most geographic regions, we rely on one or two third party companies to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards and electronic checks. If either of these companies became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, then we would need to find and engage replacement providers, which we may not be able to do on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, or to process the payments ourselves, which could be costly and time consuming, either of which scenarios could disrupt our business. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud risk. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins or require that we charge our customers more for our products. We are also subject to payment card association and similar operating rules and requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules and requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Although we maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Challenges by various tax authorities to our complex international structure could, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Dutch limited liability company that operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Our income taxes are based upon the applicable tax laws and tax rates in the countries in which we operate and earn income as well as upon our operating structures in these countries. Many countries’ tax laws and international treaties impose taxation upon entities that conduct a trade or business or operate through a permanent establishment in those countries. However, these applicable laws or treaties are subject to interpretation. The tax authorities in these countries could contend that a greater portion of the income of the Vistaprint N.V. group should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions. This could result in an increase to our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. We continue to assess the impact of various international tax proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties between the Netherlands and other countries that could result in a material impact on our income taxes. We cannot predict whether any specific legislation will be enacted or the terms of any such legislation. However, if such proposals were enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our intercompany arrangements may be challenged, resulting in higher taxes or penalties and an adverse effect on our earnings. We operate pursuant to written intercompany service and related agreements, which we also refer to as transfer pricing agreements, among Vistaprint N.V. and its subsidiaries. These agreements establish transfer prices for production, marketing, management, technology development and other services performed by these subsidiaries for other group companies. Transfer prices are prices that one company in a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be consistent with those between unrelated companies dealing at arm’s length. With the exception of the transfer pricing arrangements applicable to our Dutch and French operations, our transfer pricing arrangements are not binding on applicable tax authorities and no official authority in any other country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. If tax authorities in any country were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arm’s length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices. A reallocation of taxable income from a lower tax jurisdiction to a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the 33 Table of Contents country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. We will pay taxes even if we are not profitable on a consolidated basis, which would cause increased losses and further harm to our results of operations. The intercompany service and related agreements among Vistaprint N.V. and our direct and indirect subsidiaries in general guarantee that the subsidiaries realize profits. As a result, even if the Vistaprint group is not profitable on a consolidated basis, the majority of our subsidiaries will be profitable and incur income taxes in their respective jurisdictions. If we are unprofitable on a consolidated basis, as has been the case in some prior periods, this structure will increase our consolidated losses and further harm our results of operations. Provisions of our Articles of Association, the Articles of Association of the independent foundation, Stichting Continuïteit Vistaprint, Dutch law and the call option we granted to the independent foundation may make it difficult to replace or remove management and may inhibit or delay a change of control, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares, and dilute your voting power. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, limit our shareholders’ ability to suspend or dismiss the members of our management board and supervisory board or to overrule our supervisory board’s nominees to our management board and supervisory board by requiring a vote of two-thirds of the votes cast representing more than 50% of the outstanding ordinary shares to do so under most circumstances. As a result, there may be circumstances in which shareholders may not be able to remove members of our management board or supervisory board even if holders of a majority of our ordinary shares favor doing so. Our Articles also allow us to issue preferred shares. We have established an independent foundation, Stichting Continuïteit Vistaprint, or the “Foundation,” and granted the Foundation a call option pursuant to which the Foundation may acquire a number of preferred shares equal to the same number of ordinary shares then outstanding. The objective of the Foundation is to serve the interests of Vistaprint N.V. and its stakeholders, which includes but is not limited to shareholders. In carrying out this objective, the Foundation may acquire, own and vote our preferred shares in order to maintain the independence, continuity or identity of Vistaprint N.V. If the Foundation were to exercise the call option, it may prevent a change of control or delay or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Exercise of the preferred share option would also effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one-half. In addition, our management board may issue preferred shares up to an amount equal to the number of ordinary shares under our authorized share capital. We must seek authorization from our shareholders at least once every five years for our management board to issue preferred shares. We have limited flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. Dutch law requires shareholder approval for the issuance of ordinary shares and for our management board to limit or exclude shareholders’ preemptive rights under Dutch law. In August 2009, our shareholders granted our supervisory board and management board the authority to issue ordinary shares as the boards determine appropriate without obtaining specific shareholder approval for each issuance, but this authorization is limited to the number of ordinary shares under our authorized share capital and expires in August 2014. We intend to seek re-approval from our shareholders before the 2014 expiration date. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Dutch law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions, such as the approval of dividends. 34 Table of Contents Situations may arise where the flexibility to issue shares, pay dividends or take other corporate actions without a shareholder vote would be beneficial to us, but is not available under Dutch law. Because of our Articles of Association and our organization under Dutch law, you may find it difficult to pursue legal remedies against the members of our supervisory board or management board. Our Articles and our internal corporate affairs are governed by Dutch law. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of the supervisory board and management board that direct our affairs are different from those established under United States laws. For example, class action lawsuits and derivative lawsuits are generally not available under Dutch law. You may find it more difficult to protect your interests against actions by members of our supervisory board or management board than you would if we were a U.S. corporation. Under Dutch law, the supervisory board and the management board are responsible for acting in the best interests of the company, its business and all of its stakeholders generally, which includes employees, customers and creditors, not just shareholders. Furthermore, under our Articles, we are obligated to indemnify the members of our supervisory board and our management board against liabilities resulting from proceedings against such members in connection with their membership on either board, if such member acted in good faith and in a manner he believed to be in our best interests and such member has not been adjudged in a final and non-appealable judgment by a Dutch judge to be liable for gross negligence or willful misconduct, subject to various exceptions. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and the vast majority of our assets are located outside the United States, which may make it difficult for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and the vast majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of our management board and some of our officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons, to enforce outside the U.S. judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts, or to enforce rights predicated upon the U.S. securities laws. There is no treaty between the United States and the Netherlands for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands; the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered would need to bring a new suit in a competent court in the Netherlands and petition the Dutch court to enforce the final judgment rendered in the United States. Therefore, there can be no assurance that U.S. shareholders will be able to enforce against us, members of our management board or supervisory board or officers who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the federal securities laws. In addition, it is possible that a Dutch court would not impose civil liability on us, the members of our management board or supervisory board or our officers in an original action predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such members or officers. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Dutch withholding tax. A Dutch withholding tax may be levied on dividends and similar distributions made by Vistaprint N.V. to its shareholders at the statutory rate of 15% if we cannot structure such distributions as being made to shareholders in relation to a reduction of par value, which would be non-taxable for Dutch withholding tax purposes. We have in the past, and may in the future, repurchase outstanding 35 Table of Contents ordinary shares. Under our Dutch Advanced Tax Ruling, a repurchase of shares should not result in any Dutch withholding tax if we hold the repurchased shares in treasury for the purpose of issuing shares upon the exercise of certain stock awards and other potential uses. However, if the shares cannot be used for these purposes, or the Dutch tax authorities challenge the use of the shares for these purposes, such a repurchase of shares for the purposes of capital reduction may be treated as a partial liquidation subject to the 15% Dutch withholding tax to be levied on the difference between our recognized paid in capital for Dutch tax purposes and the redemption price. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company for United States tax purposes, which may subject United States shareholders to adverse tax consequences. If our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed levels provided by law for any taxable year, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are treated as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their ordinary shares. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the tax year ended June 30, 2010 and we expect that we will not become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, whether we are treated as a PFIC depends on questions of fact as to our assets and revenues that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a PFIC for our current tax year or for any subsequent year. If a United States shareholder acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to increased United States taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation that is a “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if one or more 10% U.S. Shareholders together own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting shares of the non-U.S. corporation or more than 50% of the total value of all shares of the corporation on any day during the taxable year of the corporation. The rules defining ownership for these purposes are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. For taxable years in which we are a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more, each of our 10% U.S. Shareholders will be required to include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our subpart F income, even if the subpart F income is not distributed to enable such taxpayer to satisfy this tax liability. Based upon our existing share ownership, we do not believe we are a CFC. However, whether we are treated as a CFC depends on questions of fact as to our share ownership that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a CFC for our current tax year or for any subsequent year. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 