Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our products may fail to achieve market acceptance, which could harm our business,” among others, including manufacturing cost containment, will determine our ability to compete effectively. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on research and development-related activities than we do. Our competitors may discover new treatments, drugs or therapies or develop existing technologies to compete with our products. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if these competing products are more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient or are less expensive than our products. Growth hormone products compete with Increlex® for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD. If Increlex® receives regulatory approval for the treatment of patients with Primary IGFD, growth hormone products will also compete with Increlex® for the treatment of patients in that indication. The major suppliers of commercially available growth hormone products in the United States are Genentech Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Novo Nordisk A/S, Pfizer Inc and Merck-Serono International S.A. Investigators from a Novo Nordisk clinical trial in 2003 presented initial data that demonstrated growth hormone was effective in a population that included children with Primary IGFD. In addition, children with Primary IGFD may be diagnosed as having idiopathic short stature, or ISS. Eli Lilly and Genentech have received FDA approval for their respective growth hormone products for the treatment of children with ISS in the United States. Moreover, biosimilar growth hormone products, including Omnitrope™ marketed by Sandoz, Accretropin™ by Cangene, and Valtropin® by LG Life Sciences have been 33 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents approved in the United States and may be approved in other countries. Accordingly, we expect that several growth hormone products will compete directly with Increlex® for the treatment of children with Primary IGFD. We are also aware that several companies are developing long-acting formulations of growth hormone for the treatment of short stature including Altus Pharmaceuticals and LG Life Sciences. In addition, we are aware that Novartis AG has developed a process to manufacture rhIGF-1 using yeast expression and has intellectual property with respect to that process. We use bacterial expression, which differs from yeast expression, to manufacture Increlex®. We believe that Bristol-Meyers Squibb Company; Genentech; Merck & Co., Inc.; Novo Nordisk and Pfizer have conducted research and development of orally available small molecules that cause the release of growth hormone, known as growth hormone secretagogues. We believe that Sapphire Therapeutics, Inc. has licensed certain rights to Novo Nordisk’s growth hormone secretagogues and that Elixir Pharmaceuticals Inc. has licensed certain rights to Bristol-Meyers Squibb Company’s growth hormone secretagogues and that both companies are actively developing these compounds for use in various indications including cancer cachexia, a wasting disorder affecting some cancer patients. These products work by increasing the levels of rhIGF-1 and, if approved, could potentially compete with Increlex®. If our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination products are approved for commercial sale, they would compete across all their approved indications with all then existing, biosimilar and long acting growth hormone products, growth hormone secretagogue products, IGF-1 products, including Increlex® , and other products. In the United States and Canada, Somatuline® Depot competes directly with Sandostatin LAR® Depot and Somavert® for the treatment of acromegaly. Sandostatin LAR® Depot is a somatostatin analogue and has the same mechanism of action as Somatuline® Depot. Sandostatin LAR® Depot is indicated for long-term maintenance therapy in patients with acromegaly and in the treatment of symptoms related to carcinoid syndrome and vasoactive intestinal peptide tumors. Somavert®, a growth hormone antagonist, and Sandostatin LAR® Depot are marketed by Pfizer and Novartis, respectively, in the United States and Canada. Moreover, a subset of patients with acromegaly can be treated with radiotherapy and dopaminergic agonists. These therapies are commercially available in the United States and Canada and also compete with Somatuline® Depot for the treatment of patients with acromegaly. We are aware that Ambrilia Biopharma Inc., QLT Inc., Indevus Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Camurus AB are conducting research and development programs with long-acting versions of octreotide for the treatment of acromegaly. Octreotide is the generic name of the active molecule in Sandostatin and Sandostatin LAR® Depot. We are also aware that Novartis is developing pasireotide (SOM 230), DeveloGen AG is developing Somatoprin (DG 3173), and that Ipsen is developing dopastatin for the treatment of acromegaly and other hormone secreting tumors. If approved, these therapies would compete with Somatuline® Depot in these indications. It is possible that there are other products currently in development or that exist on the market that may compete directly with Increlex® or Somatuline® Depot. We rely solely on single-source third parties in the manufacture, testing, storage and distribution of Increlex®. We source all of our Increlex® fill-finish manufacturing and testing and final product storage and distribution operations, as well as all of our bulk manufacturing, testing, and shipping operations, through single-source third-party suppliers and contractors. Single-source suppliers are the only approved suppliers currently available to us, and could only be replaced by qualification of new sites for the same operations. If our contract facilities, contractors or suppliers become unavailable to us for any reason, including as a result of the failure to comply with cGMP regulations, manufacturing problems or other operational failures, such as equipment failures or unplanned facility shutdowns required to comply with cGMP, damage from any event, including fire, flood, earthquake or terrorism, business restructuring or insolvency, or if they fail to 34 Table of Contents perform under our agreements with them, such as failing to deliver commercial quantities of bulk drug substance or finished product on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be delayed in manufacturing Increlex® or may be unable to maintain validation of Increlex® .. This could delay or prevent the supply of commercial and clinical product, or delay or otherwise adversely affect revenues. If the damage to any of these facilities is extensive, or, for any reason, they do not operate in compliance with cGMP or are unable or refuse to perform under our licenses and/or agreements, we will need to find alternative facilities. Further, we are responsible for the manufacture and supply of Increlex® to Ipsen (through our contract manufacturer) for Ipsen’s clinical development and commercial needs. In the event we fail to meet Ipsen’s supply obligations, Ipsen would have the right to exercise its option to manufacture Increlex® on its own or to engage a third-party manufacturer to do so. The number of contract manufacturers with the expertise and facilities to manufacture rhIGF-1 bulk drug substance on a commercial scale in accordance with cGMP regulations is extremely limited, and it would take a significant amount of time and expense to arrange for alternative manufacturers. If we need to change to other commercial manufacturers, these manufacturers’ facilities and processes, prior to our use, would likely have to undergo pre-approval and/or cGMP compliance inspections. In addition, we would need to transfer and validate the processes and analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of rhIGF-1 to these new manufacturers. Our inability to timely transfer to an alternate single-source manufacturer to fill-finish Increlex® could adversely affect our commercial supply and ability to grow revenues. We currently source all of our Increlex® fill-finish manufacturing and portions of release testing through a single-source third-party supplier. This supplier is the only FDA-approved manufacturer currently available to us, and could only be replaced by qualification of a new site for the same operations. We have negotiated a short-term commercial agreement with this fill-finish manufacturer and during the term of this agreement, we are attempting to move our process to Hospira Worldwide, Inc., or Hospira. It will take a significant amount of time and expense to complete the transfer to Hospira and validate Hospira as an alternative manufacturer. For us to complete the transfer to Hospira, Hospira’s facilities and processes, prior to our use, may need to undergo pre-approval and/or cGMP compliance inspections. In addition, we need to transfer and validate the processes and certain analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of Increlex® by Hospira. If we are not able to complete the transfer of fill-finish manufacturing to Hospira, our ability to obtain commercial supplies of Increlex® and our revenue growth could be adversely affected. A delay in this transfer may also result in a shortage of Increlex® and a loss of revenues. Our inability to timely transfer or to complete the transfer at all to an alternate single-source manufacturer for bulk Increlex® could significantly adversely affect our commercial supply and ability to grow revenues. We currently source all of our Increlex® bulk manufacturing and portions of release testing through a single-source third-party supplier, Lonza Baltimore, Inc. This supplier is the only FDA-approved manufacturer currently available to us, and could only be replaced by qualification of a new manufacturing site for the same operations. We have negotiated a short-term commercial agreement with Lonza Baltimore, and during the term of this agreement, we are attempting to move our bulk manufacturing process from Lonza Baltimore to Lonza Hopkinton. It will take a significant amount of time and expense to complete the transfer to and validate the Lonza Hopkinton manufacturing facility. For us to change to this new bulk manufacturing site, Lonza Hopkinton’s facilities and processes, prior to our use, will need to undergo pre-approval and/or cGMP compliance inspections. In addition, we need to transfer and validate the processes and certain analytical methods necessary for the production and testing of bulk Increlex® by Lonza Hopkinton. A delay in this transfer could result in a shortage of bulk Increlex® and a significant loss of revenues. If we are not able to complete this transfer, our ability to supply Increlex® will be impaired and our business will suffer irreparable harm. 35 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents If our contract manufacturers’ and/or Ipsen’s facilities and operations do not maintain satisfactory cGMP compliance, we may be unable to market and sell Increlex® and/or Somatuline® Depot. The facilities and operations of our contract manufacturers to manufacture and test Increlex®, and of Ipsen to manufacture and test Somatuline® Depot, must undergo continuing inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP regulations in order to maintain their respective approvals. Currently, Lonza Baltimore is our sole provider of bulk rhIGF-1, and Ipsen is our sole provider of Somatuline® Depot. Other than with respect to our agreement with Lonza Hopkinton, we have no alternative manufacturing facilities or plans for additional facilities at this time. We do not know if the Lonza Baltimore or Ipsen’s facilities or their operations required for the commercial manufacture of Increlex® and Somatuline® Depot will continue to receive satisfactory cGMP inspections, and we do not know whether Lonza Hopkinton will receive a satisfactory cGMP inspection. In the event these facilities or operations do not receive, or continue to receive, satisfactory cGMP inspections for the manufacture of our products, or for the operation of their facilities in general, we may need to invest in significant compliance improvement programs, fund additional modifications to our manufacturing processes, conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing facilities, any of which would result in significant cost to us as well as result in a delay or prevention of commercialization, and may result in our failure to obtain or maintain approvals. In addition, Lonza Baltimore, Lonza Hopkinton, Ipsen and any alternative contract manufacturer we may utilize, will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards. We do not have direct control over Ipsen’s or our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Any of these factors could delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions or regulatory approvals, entail higher costs and result in us being unable to effectively market and sell our products or maintain our products in the marketplace, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We rely in certain cases on single-source and sole-source materials suppliers to manufacture Increlex®. Certain specific components and raw materials used to manufacture Increlex® at our third-party manufacturers are obtained and made available through either single-source or sole-source suppliers. Single-source suppliers are the only approved suppliers currently available to us, and could only be supplemented by qualification of new sources for the material required. Sole-source suppliers are the only source of supply available to us, and could only be replaced through qualification of an alternate material after demonstrating suitability. Supply interruption of these materials could result in a significant delay to our manufacturing schedules and ability to supply product, and would likely be required to undergo lengthy regulatory approval procedures prior to product distribution. Limits or termination of supply of these materials could significantly impact our ability to manufacture Increlex®, cause significant supply delays while we qualified, at significant expense, new suppliers or new materials, and would consequently cause harm to our business, including as a result, our failure to meet our supply obligations to Ipsen. Difficulties or delays in product manufacturing due to advance scheduling requirements, capacity constraints and/or manufacturing lot failures at our third-party manufacturers or Ipsen could harm our operating results and financial performance and jeopardize our orphan drug marketing exclusivity. The manufacture of Increlex® requires successful coordination among all of our suppliers, contractors, service-providers, manufacturers and us. Coordination failures with these different elements of our supply chain, or with Ipsen’s supply of Somatuline® Depot to us, could require us to delay sales of our products and/or impair our ability to distribute and supply Increlex® to Ipsen. Furthermore, uncertainties in estimating future demand for new products such as Increlex® and Somatuline® Depot may result in manufacture of surplus inventory requiring us to record charges for any expired, unused product, or may result in inadequate manufacturing of product inventory, causing delays to shipments or no shipments at all. Additionally, our reliance on third-party manufacturing requires long lead times from order to delivery of product, and may be hampered by available capacity at those manufacturers, making our ability to supply product supplies in excess of our forecast extremely difficult. As a consequence, we may have inadequate capacity to meet unexpected demand, which 36 Table of Contents could negatively affect our operating results and our ability to meet our supply obligations to Ipsen. If we are unable to supply our products to all the patients that need them, the FDA could rescind our orphan drug marketing exclusivity to enable competitors to serve the affected markets. Further, our operating results and financial performance may suffer if we experience more than anticipated manufacturing lot failures or delivery delays. Claims and concerns may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of our products, which could require us to perform additional clinical trials, could slow penetration into the marketplace, or cause reduced sales or product withdrawal after introduction. Increlex® was approved in the United States for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD based on long-term and extensive studies and clinical trials conducted to demonstrate product safety and efficacy. Somatuline® Depot was approved in Canada and the United States for the treatment of acromegaly on a similar basis. Discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials, product or manufacturing processes, such as loss of sterility, contamination, new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified side effects or an unfavorable risk-benefit ratio for these products, could result in a voluntary or mandated withdrawal of the products from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. Studies may result in data or evidence suggesting another product is safer, better tolerated, or more efficacious than our products, which could lead to reduced sales and royalties. Additionally, discovery of unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes for our products could negatively impact the established safety and efficacy profile and result in possible reduced sales or product withdrawal. Such outcomes could negatively and materially affect our product sales, royalty stream, operating results, and financial condition. If other companies overcome our U.S. orphan drug marketing exclusivity for Increlex® or Somatuline® Depot, or obtain marketing authorization in Europe for the treatment of severe Primary IGFD, they will be able to compete with us, and our revenues will be diminished. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years from the date of approval. The orphan drug rules are similar in the European Union and marketing exclusivity is for a period of ten years from the date of approval. The FDA has granted Increlex® orphan drug marketing exclusivity for the long-term treatment of patients with severe Primary IGFD and has granted Somatuline® Depot orphan drug marketing exclusivity for the long-term treatment of acromegaly. In the European Union, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) has granted Increlex orphan drug marketing exclusivity for the long-term treatment of patients with severe Primary IGFD. Although Increlex® and Somatuline® Depot have received marketing exclusivity, the FDA and EMEA can still approve different drugs for use in treating the same indication or disease covered by our products, which would create a more competitive market for us. Furthermore, drugs considered to be the same as Increlex® or Somatuline® Depot that demonstrate clinical superiority or provide a major contribution to patient care may be approved for marketing by the FDA and EMEA notwithstanding the grant of orphan drug marketing exclusivity. If other companies are able to overcome our U.S. orphan drug exclusivity, they will be able to compete with us, and our revenues will be diminished. We will not be able to sell our products if we are not able to maintain our regulatory approvals due to changes to existing regulatory requirements. Our products and manufacturing processes are subject to continued review and ongoing regulation by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities post approval, including, for example, changes to manufacturing process standards or good manufacturing practices, changes to product labeling, revisions to existing requirements or 37 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents new requirements for manufacturing practices, or changing interpretations regarding regulatory guidance. Such changes in the regulatory environment and requirements could occur at any time during commercialization. Changes in the regulatory environment or requirements could adversely affect our ability to maintain our approval or require us to expend significant resources to maintain our approvals, which could result in the possible withdrawal of our products from the marketplace, which would harm our business and negatively impact our financial performance. Competitors could develop and gain FDA approval of products containing rhIGF-1 or lanreotide, which could adversely affect our competitive position. In the future, rhIGF-1 or lanreotide manufactured by other parties may be approved for use in the United States. For example, we are aware that Novartis AG (through acquisition of Chiron Corporation) has developed a process to manufacture rhIGF-1 using yeast expression and has intellectual property with respect to that process. In the event there are other rhIGF-1 products approved by the FDA to treat indications other than those covered by Increlex® , physicians may elect to prescribe a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 to treat the indications for which Increlex® has received and may receive approval. This is commonly referred to as off-label use. While under FDA regulations a competitor is not allowed to promote off-label use of its product, the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine and as a result cannot direct physicians as to which product containing rhIGF-1 to prescribe to their patients. In addition, a competitor could gain FDA approval of a product containing lanreotide for the treatment of an indication other than indication(s) covered by Somatuline® Depot, which would enable physicians to prescribe the competitor’s product for the indication(s) covered by Somatuline® Depot. As a result, we would have limited ability to prevent off-label use of a competitor’s product containing rhIGF-1 or lanreotide to treat any diseases for which we have received FDA approval, even if it violates our method of use patents and/or we have orphan drug exclusivity for the use of rhIGF-1 or lanreotide to treat such diseases. Competitors could challenge our patents and file an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) new drug application for an IGF-1 or Somatuline® Depot product and adversely affect the competitive position of each. Products approved for commercial marketing by the FDA are subject to the provisions of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or “Hatch-Waxman Act.” The Hatch-Waxman Act provides companies with marketing exclusivity for varying time periods during which generic or modified versions of a drug may not be marketed and allows companies to apply to extend patent protection for up to five additional years. It also provides a means for approving generic versions of a drug once the marketing exclusivity period has ended and all relevant patents have expired. The period of exclusive marketing, however, may be shortened if a patent is successfully challenged and defeated. Competitors with a generic IGF-1 or Somatuline® Depot product or a modified version of IGF-1 or Somatuline® Depot may attempt to file an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA and challenge our patents and marketing exclusivity. Such applications would have to certify that one of the patents in the Increlex® or Somatuline® Depot NDA is invalid or not infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the product described in that ANDA or 505(b)(2) application under the Hatch-Waxman Act. If successful, a competitor could come to market at an earlier time than expected. We can provide no assurances that we can prevail in a challenge or litigation related to our patents or exclusivity. We are subject to “fraud and abuse” and similar laws and regulations, and a failure to comply with such regulations or prevail in any litigation related to noncompliance could harm our business. We are subject to various health care “fraud and abuse” laws, such as the Federal False Claims Act, the federal anti-kickback statute and other state and federal laws and regulations. Pharmaceutical companies have faced lawsuits and investigations pertaining to violations of these laws and regulations. We cannot guarantee that measures that we have taken to prevent such violations, including our corporate compliance program, will protect us from future violations, lawsuits or investigations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. 38 Table of Contents If we fail or are unable to protect or defend our intellectual property rights, competitors may develop competing products, and our business will suffer. If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how, our competitors may use our inventions to develop competing products. We have licensed intellectual property rights, including patent rights, relating to rhIGF-1, our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates, and Somatuline® Depot technologies from Genentech and Ipsen, respectively. However, these patents may not protect us against our competitors. Patent litigation is very expensive, and we therefore may be unable to pursue patent litigation to its conclusion because currently we do not generate meaningful revenues. We do not have composition of matter patent coverage on the rhIGF-1 protein alone. Although we have licensed from Genentech its rights to its methods of use and manufacturing patents, it may be more difficult to establish infringement of such patents as compared to a patent directed to the rhIGF-1 protein alone. Our licensed patents may not be sufficient to prevent others from competing with us. We cannot rely solely on our patents to be successful. The standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices use to grant patents, and the standards that U.S. and foreign courts use to interpret patents, are not the same and are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change, particularly as new technologies develop. As such, the degree of patent protection obtained in the United States may differ substantially from that obtained in various foreign countries. In some instances, patents have issued in the United States while substantially less or no protection has been obtained in Europe or other countries. Our U.S. Patent No. 6,331,414 B1 licensed from Genentech is directed to methods for bacterial expression of rhIGF-1 and expires in 2018. We have no equivalent European patent. The European Patent Office has determined that the claims of Genentech’s corresponding European patent application are not patentable under European patent law in view of public disclosures made before the application was filed. We do not have composition of matter patent coverage on the lanreotide molecule (the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Somatuline® Depot) alone. We have licensed from Ipsen its rights to formulation and method of use patents for Somatuline® Depot that expire between 2015 and 2019. However, there can be no assurance that we have patent rights sufficient to prevent others from competing with us. We do not have composition of matter patent coverage on either the growth hormone or the IGF-1 component of our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates. Our U.S. Patent No. 5,374,620 and our equivalent European Patent No. 0 536 226 B1, both of which are licensed from Genentech, are composition of matter patents covering combinations of growth hormone and IGF-1 and expire in 2009 and 2011, respectively. Therefore, it is likely that these patents will expire before we are able to launch any growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product in the U.S. or in European markets. We have also licensed from Genentech certain method of use patents for our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates that expire between 2009 and 2014. Our U.S. Patent No. 6,331,414 B1 licensed from Genentech will provide protection in the United States for our process of manufacturing IGF-1 for our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates until it expires in 2018. We have no equivalent patent protection for our process of manufacturing IGF-1 in Europe. If we attempt to enforce against a competitor the patent rights we have licensed from Ipsen or the patent rights we have licensed from Genentech, and if such patents are challenged in court by defenses the competitor may raise, such as invalidity, unenforceability or possession of a valid license, we may fail to stop the competitor and we may lose the ability to assert the affected patents against other competitors as well. If we assert the patents we licensed from Ipsen or the patents we licensed from Genentech in an infringement proceeding against a competitor, and if the court were to find in favor of any defense of invalidity or unenforceability raised by the competitor against the asserted patents, we would be unable to use the affected patents to exclude others from competing with Somatuline® Depot or Increlex®. In addition, the type and extent of patent claims that will be issued to us in the future are uncertain. Any patents that are issued may not contain claims that will permit us to stop competitors from using technology similar to our Increlex®, or any growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product or Somatuline® Depot technologies. 39 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents In addition to the patented technology licensed from Genentech and Ipsen, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information, such as the proprietary information we use to manufacture Increlex®. We may not be able to effectively protect our rights to this technology or information. Other parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose this technology. We generally require each of our employees, consultants, collaborators, and certain contractors to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment, consulting or collaborative relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of this technology or information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. We may incur substantial costs as a result of patent infringement litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, and we may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. A third-party may claim that we are using its inventions covered by its patents and may initiate litigation to stop us from engaging in our operations and activities. Although no third party has claimed that we are infringing on their patents, patent lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us to pay the other party damages for having infringed the other party’s patents. The biotechnology industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods of use do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid, and we may not be able to do so. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. We are aware of a U.S. patent of Novartis related to processes of manufacturing rhIGF-1 in yeast host cells, to fusion proteins, DNA, and yeast host cells useful in such processes of manufacturing rhIGF-1 in yeast host cells, and to rhIGF-1 made as a product of such processes. While we use bacterial expression, not yeast expression, in our process for manufacturing Increlex®, we cannot predict whether our activities relating to the development and commercialization of Increlex® in the United States will be found to infringe Novartis’s patent in the event Novartis brings patent infringement proceedings against us. We may not be able to obtain a license to Novartis’s patent under commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain a license to Novartis’s patent, and if in any patent infringement proceeding Novartis brings against us the court decides that our activities relating to the development and commercialization of Increlex® in the United States infringe Novartis’s patent, the court may award damages and/or injunctive relief to Novartis. Any such damages, injunctive relief and/or other remedies the court may award could render any further development and commercialization of Increlex® commercially infeasible for us or otherwise curtail or cease any further development and commercialization of Increlex®. We cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by the issued patents of any of our licensors, or by our pending applications or by the pending applications of any of our licensors, or that we or any of our licensors were the first to invent the technology because: • some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, • patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and • publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries and the filing of patents relating to those discoveries. 40 Table of Contents Patent applications may have been filed and may be filed in the future covering technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. In the event that another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could harm our business. Ipsen may seek to influence our business in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies or to the interests of our other stockholders. Based on its significant ownership position through certain protective provisions, Ipsen has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of certain actions by our Board of Directors and those requiring the approval of our stockholders. Our other stockholders may be unable to prevent actions taken by Ipsen. Together with the 13,046,346 shares of our common stock that we have issued to Ipsen (and/or an affiliate of Ipsen), the conversion of the convertible notes and the exercise of the warrant that we have also issued to Ipsen would enable Ipsen to acquire an ownership interest in us of approximately 40% on a fully diluted basis, with the opportunity to increase its ownership position to 60% or greater through market purchases. Ipsen was also granted a preemptive right to purchase its pro rata portion of new securities that we may offer in the future to maintain its percentage ownership interest. In addition, under the terms of our affiliation agreement with Ipsen, so long as Ipsen holds at least 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Ipsen is entitled to nominate two out of the nine directors on our Board of Directors. In the event that Ipsen holds at least 10% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, but less than 15%, it would be entitled to nominate one director to our Board of Directors. Our affiliation agreement with Ipsen also provides that in the event Ipsen holds at least 60% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Ipsen is entitled to nominate an unlimited number of directors to our Board of Directors. For so long as Ipsen holds at least 15% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Ipsen is also entitled to nominate additional independent director nominees, who must be independent of Ipsen, starting in 2008. Our certificate of incorporation was also amended in connection with our collaboration with Ipsen to waive the corporate opportunity provisions under Delaware law and the corporate opportunity doctrine with respect to opportunities of which Ipsen and Ipsen’s designees to our Board of Directors may become aware as a result of their affiliation with us. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation provides that any person purchasing or acquiring an interest in shares of our common stock shall be deemed to have consented to these provisions of our certificate of incorporation. This deemed consent might restrict the ability to challenge transactions carried out in compliance with these provisions. We make no assurances that Ipsen will not seek to influence our business in a manner that is contrary to our goals or strategies or the interests of other stockholders. Moreover, persons who are directors and/or officers of Ipsen and who also serve on our Board of Directors may decline to take action in a manner that might be favorable to us but adverse to Ipsen. Currently, one of our directors, Christophe Jean, also serves as the Chief Operating Officer of Ipsen. If we lose our licenses from Genentech or Ipsen, we may be unable to continue our business. We have licensed intellectual property rights and technology from Genentech and from Ipsen. Under our license and collaboration agreements with Genentech and Ipsen, each of Genentech and Ipsen have the right to terminate our licenses if we are in material breach of our obligations under our agreements with them and fail to cure that breach. Under the terms of the agreements, we are obligated, among other things, to use reasonable business efforts to meet specified milestones. If any of these agreements are terminated, then we would lose our rights to utilize the technology and intellectual property covered by that agreement to develop, manufacture, market and sell Increlex® for any indication, to develop, market and sell Somatuline® Depot, and to develop, manufacture, market and sell our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates. This may prevent us from continuing our business. 41 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents We are subject to Genentech’s option rights with respect to the commercialization of Increlex® for all diabetes and non-orphan indications in the United States; Ipsen’s right of first negotiation to develop and commercialize other endocrine products subsequently acquired or owned by us; and Genentech’s option rights with respect to our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates. Under our U.S. license and collaboration agreement with Genentech for Increlex®, Genentech has the option to elect to jointly commercialize rhIGF-1 for all diabetes and non-orphan indications in the United States. Orphan indications are designated by the FDA under the Orphan Drug Act, and are generally rare diseases or conditions that affect fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. With respect to those non-orphan and diabetes indications in the United States, once Genentech has exercised its option to jointly develop and commercialize, Genentech has the final decision on disputes relating to the development and commercialization of such indications. Our ability to sublicense the development and commercialization of such products requires the consent of Genentech. Under a letter agreement of July 2007, we and Genentech amended the U.S. license and collaboration agreement to provide that until such time as we initiate the development of rhIGF-1 for diabetes (or a substitute indication mutually agreed to by us and Genentech that has a potential market of greater than $250 million and is not an indication for the central nervous system), Genentech may elect to initiate such development for diabetes or, upon our and Genentech’s mutual agreement, the development of a substitute indication that has a potential market size of greater than $250 million and is not an indication of the central nervous system. In addition, if we elect to discontinue the development of rhIGF-1 for diabetes or a substitute indication selected by us with Genentech’s consent, Genentech has the right to assume development of such indication. In the event that Genentech initiates the development of rhIGF-1 for any such indication before we do or assumes the development of rhIGF-1 for any such indication after such development is discontinued by us, our rights under the agreement for such indication would terminate and Genentech would be granted a non-exclusive license under our rhIGF-1 intellectual property and technology to manufacture, use and sell rhIGF-1 products for diabetes, or if applicable the substitute indication, subject to an obligation to pay us milestone payments and/or royalties to be negotiated by Genentech and us in good faith on sales of these products. Under our license and collaboration agreement with Ipsen with respect to Increlex®, Ipsen has a right of first negotiation to develop and commercialize, in Ipsen’s territory, other products subsequently acquired or owned by us in the field of endocrinology. Accordingly, we may not receive a reasonable return on our investment if we develop new endocrinology products. In its territory, Ipsen also has the exclusive right to sublicense our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates. Accordingly, we have limited ability to sublicense these candidates to other parties. Under our development and commercialization agreement with Genentech with respect to our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates, Genentech has a right to opt into our development and commercialization for short stature indications, AGHD and certain other indications. If Genentech opts in, it would still have the right to subsequently elect to opt out of such development and commercialization of such combination product candidates and products, but only for all indications. Following an opt-in by Genentech, Genentech would control the joint development and commercialization of the combination product candidates and products for certain other indications and could assume control of the joint development and/or commercialization of products for the treatment of AGHD. Upon opt-in, Genentech may also choose to exercise a commercial option to acquire the right for the deciding vote on all commercialization matters pertaining to short stature indications; however, we would remain the lead commercialization party for Short Stature Indications. Because of Genentech’s ability to control the timing and extent of such joint development and commercialization activities and our obligation to co-fund such activities, Genentech may induce us to bear an excessive financial burden in support of or to opt out of the joint development and commercialization of our combination product candidates and/or products for AGHD and certain other indications. In addition, our ability to sublicense the development and commercialization of our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates requires the consent of Genentech. Accordingly, because of these various option, limits on sublicensing, and right of first negotiation rights, we may not receive a reasonable return on our investment for developing and/or commercializing Increlex® or our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates. 42 Table of Contents If third-party clinical research organizations do not perform in an acceptable and timely manner, our clinical trials could be delayed or unsuccessful. We do not have the ability to conduct all of our clinical trials independently. We rely on clinical investigators, third-party clinical research organizations and consultants to perform a substantial portion of these functions. If we cannot locate acceptable contractors to run our clinical trials or enter into favorable agreements with them, or if these contractors do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, satisfy FDA requirements for the conduct of clinical trials, or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain or maintain required approvals and may be unable to market and sell our products on a timely basis, if at all. If we fail to identify and in-license other patent rights, products or product candidates, we may be unable to grow our revenues. We do not conduct any discovery research. Our strategy is to in-license products or product candidates and further develop them for commercialization. The market for acquiring and in-licensing patent rights, products and product candidates is intensely competitive. If we are not successful in identifying and in-licensing other patent rights, products or product candidates, we may be unable to grow our revenues with sales from additional products. Further, under the terms of our collaboration with Ipsen, Ipsen has certain approval rights with respect to our entering into material contracts or transactions, making capital expenditures or acquiring certain assets. Accordingly, Ipsen may prevent us from in-licensing products or product candidates. In addition, under the terms of our collaboration, Ipsen has a right of first negotiation to develop and commercialize, in Ipsen’s territory, products subsequently acquired or owned by us in the field of endocrinology. Under our combination product agreement with Genentech, Genentech has certain opt-in rights with respect to our development and commercialization of combination products and, with respect to certain combination products, to become the lead party for the planning, development and/or commercialization of such combination products. In addition, we may need additional intellectual property from other third parties to market and sell our products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain a license to any third-party technology we may require to conduct our business. The committed equity financing facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge Capital Limited may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, and may require us to pay certain liquidated damages. In October 2005, we entered into a committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, with Kingsbridge Capital Limited, or Kingsbridge, which entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time over a period of three years, newly issued shares of our common stock for cash consideration of up to an aggregate of $75.0 million, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include: • a minimum price for our common stock; • the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; • compliance with laws; • continued effectiveness of the registration statement, filed by us with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, for the resale of the shares of common stock issuable in connection with the CEFF and the shares of common stock underlying the warrant we issued to Kingsbridge in connection with the entering into of the CEFF; and • the continued listing of our stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF if it determines that a material and adverse event has occurred affecting our business, operations, properties or financial condition. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if the CEFF is terminated by Kingsbridge, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. 43 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents The terms of the CEFF require us to pay certain liquidated damages in the event that the registration statement filed by us with the SEC is not available for the resale of securities purchased by Kingsbridge under the CEFF or upon exercise of the warrant we issued to Kingsbridge. Except for certain periods of ineffectiveness permitted under the CEFF, we are obligated to pay to Kingsbridge an amount equal to the number of shares purchased under the CEFF and held by Kingsbridge at the date the registration statement becomes unavailable, multiplied by any positive difference in price between the volume weighted average price on the trading day prior to such period of unavailability and the volume weighted average price on the first trading day after the period of unavailability. In addition, we are entitled in certain circumstances to deliver a “blackout” notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under the registration statement. If we deliver a blackout notice in the 15 trading days following a settlement of a draw down, then we must make a blackout payment to Kingsbridge as liquidated damages, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated by means of a varying percentage of an amount based on the number of shares purchased and held by Kingsbridge and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the registration statement, the blackout payment could be significant and could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to raise capital. In addition, under the terms of an affiliation agreement we entered into pursuant to our collaboration with Ipsen, we have only a limited ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities, including pursuant to the CEFF, without first obtaining Ipsen’s approval. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance the repayment of the convertible notes we issued to Ipsen, which could adversely affect our cash position and harm our business. Under the terms of our collaboration with Ipsen, we issued to Ipsen convertible notes in the principal amounts of $25.0 million, €30.0 million and $15.0 million. All of these notes mature on the later of October 13, 2011 or two years from the date of notification of non-convert, and carry a 2.5% coupon per annum from the date of issuance, compounded quarterly. If Ipsen (or a subsequent holder) chooses not to convert these notes, we would be required to pay to Ipsen the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest at maturity. We are also subject to currency risk on the €30.0 million principal amount convertible note that we issued to Ipsen which, if the note is not converted, may result in the need to raise a greater amount of U.S. dollars to repay this note at maturity than would be required based on a conversion of this note to U.S. dollars at the time we entered into the stock purchase and master transaction agreement with Ipsen in July 2006 or issuance of the note. If we are required to repay the notes in cash, we will likely need to raise such amounts from the capital markets or through a strategic transaction. There is no assurance that we would be able to do so in a timely manner or on reasonable terms. If we are unable to do so, we may be required to delay or curtail our development and commercialization efforts, which would harm our business. Our indebtedness to Ipsen could have significant additional negative consequences, including, but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. 44 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to execute our business plan. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2007 as well as internally generated funds will be sufficient to meet our projected operating and capital expenditure requirements through at least the end of 2008 based on our current business plan. However, our future capital needs and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including: • changes to our business plan; • our ability to market and sell sufficient quantities of Increlex® and Somatuline® Depot at the anticipated level; • the commercial status of the Increlex® bulk drug manufacturing operations at Lonza Baltimore and Lonza Hopkinton, including the success of our cGMP production activities; • the success of Increlex® final drug product manufacturing; • the costs, timing and scope of additional regulatory approvals for Increlex®; • Ipsen’s ability to supply Somatuline® Depot to us in sufficient quantities; • the costs, timing and scope of additional regulatory approvals for Somatuline® Depot; • Ipsen’s ability to market and sell sufficient quantities of Increlex® in the licensed territories at the anticipated level; • any required repayment of the convertible notes we issued to Ipsen; • the status of competing products; • the rate of progress and cost of our future clinical trials and other research and development activities, including research and development activities and clinical trial costs in connection with our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates; and • the pace of expansion of administrative and legal expenses. We expect capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase over the next several years as we expand our operations. We expect that we may require and attempt to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate partners or from other sources, including potentially the CEFF. However, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable. In addition, under the terms of an affiliation agreement we entered into pursuant to our collaboration with Ipsen, we have only a limited ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity without first obtaining Ipsen’s approval. Although we have entered into a stock purchase agreement with Genentech pursuant to which we may issue up to an additional 1,894,737 shares of common stock (or up to a maximum of $9.0 million of shares of common stock) to Genentech, such issuances are subject to various conditions, including a Genentech opt in and the achievement of a regulatory approval milestone, and there can be no assurance that we will receive additional funds from Genentech pursuant to the stock purchase agreement. Further, we must first obtain Ipsen’s approval to issue shares of common stock to Genentech under our stock purchase agreement with Genentech at a price per share less than $4.75, which we may not be able to obtain. If additional funds are not available, we may be forced to curtail or cease operations. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to implement our business plan. Our ability to implement our business plan requires an effective planning and management process. As of December 31, 2007, we had 126 full-time employees, and we expect to hire additional employees in the near term. Our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay area where competition for personnel with biopharmaceutical skills is intense. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. 45 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents We believe that our anticipated future growth may strain our management, systems and resources. To manage the anticipated growth of our operations, we may need to increase management resources and implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to manage our growth, we may be unable to execute our business strategy. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. One potential risk of using growth factors like rhIGF-1 is that it may increase the likelihood of developing cancer or, if patients already have cancer, that the cancer may develop more rapidly. Increlex® may also increase the risk that diabetic patients may develop or worsen an existing retinopathy, which could lead to the need for additional therapy such as laser treatment of the eyes or result in blindness. In our Phase III clinical trials for severe Primary IGFD, the data of which we submitted to the FDA in our NDA, some patients experienced hypoglycemia, or low blood glucose levels. Other side effects noted in some patients include hearing deficits, enlargement of the tonsils and intracranial hypertension. Somatuline® Depot is a member of a class of products known as somatostatin analogs, which have the potential to cause gallstones and other disorders associated with obstruction of the biliary tract, including pancreatitis. These products also alter the balance between the counter-regulatory hormones insulin, glucagon and growth hormone, which may result in hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia, and suppress secretion of thyroid stimulating hormone, which may result in hypothyrodism. Cardiac conduction abnormalities have also occurred during treatment with this class of drugs. There may also be other adverse events associated with the use of Increlex® or Somatuline® Depot, and adverse events may arise that are related to our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates, which may result in product liability suits being brought against us. While we have licensed the rights to develop, market and sell Increlex®, Somatuline® Depot and our growth hormone/IGF-1 combination product candidates in certain indications, with the exception of certain liabilities covered up to certain limits by our insurance policies, we are not indemnified by any third party, including our contract manufacturers, for any liabilities that we bear and that arise out of our development or use of any of these products or product candidates. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity or reduced acceptance of our products in the market, or product candidates in development, all of which would impair our business. We have obtained clinical trial insurance and product liability insurance; however, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. In addition, we are contractually obligated to indemnify certain contract manufacturers for certain liabilities that they would otherwise bear and that arise from use of our products or product candidates. Because such contractually assumed liabilities are not covered by any of our insurance policies, the negative financial impact of any such liability could hinder or prevent us from continuing our business. Budgetary or cash constraints may force us to delay our efforts to develop certain research and development programs in favor of developing others, which may prevent us from meeting our stated timetables and completing these projects through to product commercialization. Because we are a company with limited financial resources, and because research, development and commercialization activities are costly processes, we must regularly prioritize the most efficient allocation of our financial resources. For example, we may choose to delay or abandon our research and development efforts for the treatment of a particular indication or project to allocate those resources to another indication or project, or to commercialization activities, which could cause us to fall behind our initial timetables for development. As a result, we may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our product candidates in a timely manner, since they will be delayed in reaching the market, or may not reach the market at all. 46 Table of Contents We must implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization. As a public reporting company, we must comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, and other requirements have increased our costs and required additional management resources. We have upgraded our finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional procedures and controls as we grow our business and organization. Section 404 requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and an opinion by our independent registered public accountants on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. If our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. If we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our ability to market and sell our products and develop other product candidates will be harmed. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and scientific personnel and on our ability to develop relationships with leading academic scientists and clinicians. We are highly dependent on our current management and key medical, scientific and technical personnel, including: Dr. John A. Scarlett, our Chief Executive Officer; and Dr. Ross G. Clark, our Founder and Chief Technical Officer, whose knowledge of our industry and technical expertise would be extremely difficult to replace. We have at will employment contracts with all of our executive officers. They may terminate their employment without cause or good reason and without notice to us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our results do not meet our and analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline. Analysts who cover our business and operations provide valuations regarding our stock price and make recommendations whether to buy, hold or sell our stock. Our stock price may be dependent upon such valuations and recommendations. Analysts’ valuations and recommendations are based primarily on our reported results and our and their forecasts and expectations concerning our future results regarding, for example, expenses, revenues, clinical trials, regulatory marketing approvals and competition. Our future results are subject to substantial uncertainty, and we may fail to meet or exceed our and analysts’ forecasts and expectations as a result of a number of factors, including those discussed under the section entitled “Risks Related to Our Business” above. If our results do not meet our and analysts’ forecasts and expectations, our stock price could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. If our officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they are able to control our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 80.8% of our common stock. Our greater than five percent beneficial owners include Ipsen and its affiliates, which beneficially owned 42.6% (not including shares subject to limited voting agreements with certain of our stockholders); entities affiliated with MPM BioVentures III LLC, which beneficially owned 13.4%; entities affiliated with Prospect Management Co. II, LLC, which beneficially owned 5.9%; MedImmune, Inc., which beneficially owned 5.8%; and entities affiliated with Rho Capital Partners, which beneficially owned 5.8%. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their affiliates collectively have the ability to determine the election of all of our directors and to determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. They may exercise this ability in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. 47 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents Our collaboration with Ipsen limits our ability to enter into transactions and to pursue opportunities in conflict with Ipsen, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Under the terms of an affiliation agreement we entered into pursuant to our collaboration with Ipsen, the approval of Ipsen is required for us to take certain actions, including, but not limited to: • entering into most material transactions or agreements; • merging or consolidating with other entities; • establishing or approving an operating budget with anticipated research and development spending in excess of $25.0 million per year, plus potential additional amounts for new Ipsen projects under the license and collaboration agreement we entered into with respect to Somatuline® Depot; • subject to limited exceptions, incurring any indebtedness other than certain permitted indebtedness (provided that our total permitted indebtedness may not exceed $2.5 million if our ratio of net indebtedness to EBITDA exceeds 1:1); • incurring capital expenditures of more than $2.0 million in any given year; • making any investment, other than certain permitted investments; • entering into any transaction that results in competition with Ipsen; • declaring or paying any cash dividends; • taking any action with respect to takeover defense measures, including with respect to our stockholder rights plan; and • issuing or selling shares of our capital stock, other than issuances or sales after October 13, 2008 that may not exceed $25.0 million in any three-year period, and other limited exceptions. These provisions could continue indefinitely and may limit our ability to enter into transactions otherwise viewed as beneficial to us, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our stockholder rights plan and anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions: • establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and hinder a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations between us and one or more significant stockholders unless specified conditions are met, may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. 48 Table of Contents We have adopted a rights agreement under which certain stockholders have the right to purchase shares of a new series of preferred stock at an exercise price of $40.00 per one one-hundredth of a share of such preferred stock, subject to adjustment, if a person or group of persons acquires more than a certain percentage of our common stock. The rights plan could make it more difficult for a person to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The rights plan could also reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without the rights plan. In addition, the existence of the rights plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the rights plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers or other business combinations that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. The committed equity financing facility that we entered into with Kingsbridge may result in dilution to our stockholders. Pursuant to the CEFF, Kingsbridge committed to purchase, subject to certain conditions and at our election, up to $75.0 million of our common stock. Should we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of any “blackout” payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to ten percent from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. Our stock price may be volatile, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in March 2004, and is likely to remain volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many events or factors, including the following: • announcements by us, Ipsen, Genentech, our suppliers and key third-party vendors, or our competitors of regulatory developments, product development agreements, clinical trial results, clinical trial enrollment, regulatory filings, new products and product launches, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; • estimates of our business potential and earnings prospects; • deviations from analysts’ projections regarding business potential, costs and/or earnings prospects; • developments with respect to our collaboration with Ipsen; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • significant developments in the businesses of biotechnology companies; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in market valuations or financial results of biotechnology companies; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment or reimbursement systems, regulations or policies; • activities of short sellers and risk arbitrageurs; • future sales of our common stock, including potential sales of a substantial number of shares by Ipsen and its affiliates, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur; • general economic, industry and market conditions; and • volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among highly volatile securities of biotechnology companies. 49 Proxy Statement Appendix A Audit Committee Charter Form 10-K Annual Report Table of Contents In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of many biotechnology companies, which often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If the market price of our common stock declines in value, you may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. Substantial sales of shares may impact the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or pursuant to the CEFF, and the shares issued or issuable to Genentech and Ipsen and its affiliates, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, the perceived risk of dilution from sales or issuances of our common stock to or by Kingsbridge or Ipsen may cause holders of our common stock to sell their shares, or it may encourage short selling by market participants, which could contribute to a decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, we had 51,532,229 outstanding shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2007, we had 5,419,638 shares subject to outstanding options granted under our equity compensation plans. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, 15,574,519 shares were issuable upon the exercise of the warrant and conversion of the three convertible notes, which we have issued to Ipsen. Further, the terms of the warrant we issued to Ipsen provide that the number of shares of our common stock subject to the warrant may increase in the event of certain issuances of equity securities by us that dilute Ipsen’s percentage ownership interest in us. Moreover, the initial exercise price of the warrant, and the conversion price of convertible notes we have issued to Ipsen, are subject to certain weighted-average price-based antidilution adjustments. These terms of the warrant and convertible notes may entitle Ipsen to acquire a greater number of shares of our common stock than we currently anticipate. We have filed a registration statement covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options and other grants pursuant to our stock plans. In September 2005, we filed a shelf registration statement pursuant to which we may, from time-to-time, sell shares of our common stock and preferred stock, various series of debt securities and/or warrants to purchase any of such securities, either individually or in units, in one or more offerings. In November 2005, we also filed a registration statement for the resale of the shares of common stock issuable in connection with the CEFF and the shares of common stock underlying the warrant we issued to Kingsbridge in connection with our entering into the CEFF. Moreover, we have agreed that, upon Ipsen’s request after October 13, 2007, we would file one or more registration statements in order to permit Ipsen and its affiliates to offer and sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock, including the 13,046,346 shares we issued to an affiliate of Ipsen and the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant and conversion of the convertible notes we issued to Ipsen. In addition, certain holders of shares of our common stock that are parties to our amended and restated investors’ rights agreement, including Genentech, are entitled to registration rights. 50 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 