Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Although we have grouped risk factors by category, the categories are not mutually exclusive. Risks described under one category may also apply to another category, and you should carefully read the entire risk factors section, not just any one category of risk factors. Risks Related to Our Industry, Business and Operations Challenges exist in implementing revisions to our business model. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, we took several measures to adjust our business in response to economic conditions. Most significantly, we refined our service offerings and added fee-for-service offerings such as portfolio management and asset servicing. In August 2009, we completed the development of our Monogram product offering, which incorporates refinements to our origination process, including an enhanced application interface, an expanded credit decisioning model and additional reporting capabilities. We have limited experience with our Monogram product, which is based on a new, proprietary origination risk score model and does not contemplate a third-party guaranty. We are uncertain of the extent to which the market will accept our Monogram product, particularly in the current economic environment where there has been reluctance by many lenders to focus on education lending opportunities. As of September 2, 2010, we have signed only two loan program agreements and expect to have fully deployed the product to only two clients by September 30, 2010. Successful sales of our services, including our Monogram product, will be critical to growing and diversifying our revenues and client base in the future. Our Monogram product may include capital commitments on our part for credit enhancement. We have provided or agreed to provide capital commitments in connection with our two initial Monogram-based loan programs. Should additional lenders require credit enhancement from us as a condition to entering into a loan program agreement, our growth may be constrained by the level of capital available to us. Commercial banks have historically served as the initial funding sources for loans we facilitate and have been our principal clients. Since the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we have not facilitated take-out securitization transactions to support the long-term funding of private education loans, and commercial 19 Table of Contents banks are facing liquidity and credit challenges from other sources, in particular mortgage, auto loan and credit card lending losses. In addition, the synergies that previously existed between federal education loan marketing and private education loan marketing have been eliminated by legislation that eliminated FFELP. As a result, many lenders have re-evaluated their business strategies related to education lending. In light of general economic conditions, capital markets disruptions and the declining credit performance of consumer-related loans, the private education loan business may generally be less attractive to commercial banks than in the past. In this environment, it is uncertain whether commercial banks will continue funding private education loans. Some of our former clients have exited the private education loan market completely. To the extent that commercial banks exit the private education loan market, the number of our prospective clients diminishes. One of our primary challenges is to convince national and regional lenders that they can address the market opportunity in a manner that meets their desired risk control and return objectives. A related challenge is to finance successfully loans generated through our Monogram product through capital market transactions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in either the short-term or the long-term in meeting these challenges. We have provided or agreed to provide credit enhancement in connection with two loan programs and plan to enter into similar arrangements in connection with future loan programs based on our Monogram product. As a result, we have capital at risk in connection with each lender's loan program. We may lose the capital we have provided as credit enhancement, and our financial results could be adversely affected. Historically, the loan programs that we facilitated included a third-party guaranty, pursuant to which the guarantor agreed to reimburse lenders for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted loans. Our Monogram product does not include a third-party guaranty. In connection with two loan programs based on our Monogram product, we have provided or agreed to provide credit enhancement by funding an account for each lender, which we refer to as a Participation Account, up to a specified dollar limit, which we refer to as the Participation Cap, to serve as a first-loss reserve for defaulted program loans. We provided or agreed to provide an initial deposit into the Participation Accounts and agreed to provide supplementary deposits into such accounts on a quarterly basis during the term of the loan program agreements based on disbursed program loan volume and adjustments to default projections for program loans. Although we will not be required to provide any credit enhancement in excess of the Participation Cap, we have or will have capital at risk in connection with lenders' loan programs and the amount of such capital at risk will increase quarterly. As of September 2, 2010, we have funded capital commitments in the amount of $7.4 million in support of SunTrust Bank's Monogram-based program. We could lose some or all of the amounts that we have deposited, or will deposit in the future, in the Participation Accounts depending on the performance of the portfolio of program loans. Any such loss would erode our liquidity position and damage business prospects for our Monogram product. Our Monogram product is based on proprietary scoring models and risk mitigation and pricing strategies that we have only recently developed. We have no experience with the actual performance of loan portfolios generated by lenders based on our Monogram product. We must closely monitor the characteristics and performance of each lender's loan portfolio in order to suggest adjustments to the lenders' programs and tailor our default prevention and recovery strategies. We have limited experience with the infrastructure that we have built for such monitoring, which requires extensive operational and data integration among the loan servicer, multiple default prevention and recovery agencies, and us. To the extent that our infrastructure is inadequate or we are otherwise unsuccessful in identifying portfolio performance characteristics and trends, or to the extent that lenders are unwilling to adjust their loan programs, our risk of losing amounts deposited in the Participation Accounts may increase. We may offer additional prospective clients similar credit enhancement arrangements. We expect that the amount of any such credit enhancement offered to a particular lender would be determined 20 Table of Contents based on the particular terms of the lender's loan program, including the underwriting guidelines with respect to such program. We have finite amounts of cash available to offer to prospective clients, and there is a risk that lenders will not enter into loan program agreements with us unless we offer credit enhancement. We will need to facilitate substantial loan volume in order to return to profitability. We designed our Monogram product, in part, to reduce our dependence on the securitization market in order to generate revenue. Although we expect to generate ongoing monthly revenue through the maturity of the program loans, we will need to facilitate substantial loan volumes in order to return to profitability. In addition, because the revenues that we expect to generate for Monogram-based loan programs will depend in part on the size, credit mix and actual performance of our lender clients' loan portfolios, it is difficult for us to forecast the level or timing of our revenues or income with respect to our Monogram product generally or a specific lender's Monogram-based program. The outsourcing services market for education lending is competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. We offer our clients and prospective clients, national and regional financial institutions and educational institutions, services in structuring and supporting their private education loan programs. The outsourcing services market in which we operate remains competitive with a number of active participants, some of which have greater financial, technical or other competitive resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients than we have. As a result, our competitors or potential competitors may be better able to overcome capital markets dislocations, adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences, compete for skilled professionals, build upon efficiencies based on a larger volume of loan transactions, fund internal growth and compete for market share, generally, than we are. Based on the range of services that we offer, we believe that Sallie Mae is our principal competitor. Sallie Mae has announced that it intends to concentrate on growth of its private education loan volumes, particularly following the elimination of FFELP. Our business could be adversely affected if Sallie Mae's program to market private education loans continues to grow, or if Sallie Mae or Nelnet, Inc., which currently provides fee-based services for non-federally guaranteed loans, seeks to market more aggressively to third parties the full range of services that we offer. Other private education loan originators include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo & Company, Discover Financial Services and Student Loan Corporation, an 80% owned subsidiary of Citibank, N.A. We may face competition from loan originators, including our clients or former clients, if they choose to develop an internal capability to provide any of the services that we currently offer. For example, a loan originator that has, or decides to develop, a portfolio management or capital markets function may not choose to engage us for our services. Historically, lenders in the education loan market have focused their lending activities on federal loans because of the relative size of the federal loan market and because the federal government guarantees repayment of these loans, thereby significantly limiting the lenders' credit risk. The demand for our services could decline if lenders exit educational lending altogether or place additional emphasis on the private education loan market and offer the services we provide in response to the elimination of FFELP. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with new or existing competitors. If we are not able to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents The growth of our business could be adversely affected by changes in government education loan programs or expansions in the population of students eligible for loans under government education loan programs. We focus our business exclusively on the market for private education loans, and substantially all of our business is concentrated in products for post-secondary education. The availability and terms of loans that the government originates or guarantees affects the demand for private education loans because students and their families often rely on private education loans to bridge a gap between available funds, including family savings, grants and federal and state loans, and the costs of post-secondary education. The federal government currently places both annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of federal loans that any student can receive and determines the criteria for student eligibility. These guidelines are generally adjusted in connection with funding authorizations from the United States Congress for programs under the Higher Education Act of 1965. Recent federal legislation expands federal grant and loan assistance, which could weaken the demand for private education loans. In addition, the elimination of FFELP could result in increased competition in the market for private education loans, as well as a shift by students away from higher cost schools. Increased competition could adversely affect the volume of private education loans and future capital markets transactions, if any, that we facilitate and impede the growth of our business. In May 2008, the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 was signed into law and contains provisions which might adversely impact the demand for private education loans and outsourcing services provided by us, availability and flow of funds for private education loans, and our liquidity position. Among other things, the Act: •permits a parent borrower under the federal Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students, or PLUS, loan program to defer repayment of a PLUS loan until six months after the student ceases to carry at least one-half the normal full-time academic workload; •extends eligibility for a PLUS loan to an applicant who, during the period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2008, has not been delinquent for more than 180 days on mortgage loan payments or medical bill payments nor more than 89 days delinquent on the repayment of any other debt, in any case, during such period; and •increases the loan limits for unsubsidized Stafford loans for undergraduate students. In August 2008, the Higher Education Opportunity Act was signed into law, which adds: •significant restrictions to the marketing of federal and private education loans; and •significant compliance burdens to private education loan lenders by adding new TILA disclosures, procedures and rescission rights, as well as accompanying civil penalties. Access to alternative means of financing the costs of education may reduce demand for private education loans. The demand for private education loans could weaken if student borrowers use other vehicles to bridge the gap between available funds and costs of post-secondary education. These vehicles include, among others: •home equity loans or other borrowings available to families to finance their education costs; •pre-paid tuition plans, which allow students to pay tuition at today's rates to cover tuition costs in the future; •529 plans, which include both prepaid tuition plans and college savings plans that allow a family to save funds on a tax-advantaged basis; •education IRAs, now known as Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, under which a holder can make annual contributions for education savings; 22 Table of Contents •government education loan programs, generally; and •direct loans from colleges and universities. If demand for private education loans weakens, we would experience reduced demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Continuation of the current economic conditions could adversely affect the private education loan industry. As a result of capital market dislocations that began during the second quarter of fiscal 2008, as well as the TERI Reorganization, we have not completed a securitization transaction since September 2007. In addition, high unemployment rates and the unsteady financial sector have adversely affected many consumers and borrowers throughout the country. Current borrowers may experience more trouble in repaying credit obligations, which could increase loan delinquencies and defaults and negatively affect the value of our service receivables. In addition, some consumers may find that higher education is an unnecessary investment during turbulent economic times and defer enrollment in educational institutions until the economy improves or turn to less costly forms of secondary education, thus decreasing education loan application and funding volumes. Finally, many lending institutions have been reluctant to lend and have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, and several clients and potential clients have exited the private education loan business and may or may not seek our services as the economy improves. If the adverse economic environment continues, our financial condition may deteriorate for any one of the foregoing reasons. If our clients do not actively or successfully market and fund private education loans, our business will be adversely affected. We have in the past relied on, and will continue to rely in part, on our clients to market and fund private education loans to student borrowers. If our clients do not devote sufficient time and resources to their marketing efforts or are not successful in these efforts, then we may not reach the full potential of our capacity for facilitated loan volume and our business will be adversely affected. In addition, if loans were or are marketed by our clients in a manner that is unfair or deceptive, or if the marketing, origination or servicing violated or violates any applicable law, state unfair and deceptive practices acts could impose liability on the holder of the loan or create defenses to the enforceability of the loan. Investigations by the New York Attorney General, the Attorneys General of other states, the United States Congress or others could have a negative impact on lenders' desire to market private education loans. The Higher Education Opportunity Act creates significant additional restrictions on the marketing of private education loans. If we fail to manage our cost reductions effectively, our business could be disrupted and our financial results could be adversely affected. During fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we reduced headcount by over 800 employees, including departures of our former Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Information Officer and Chief Marketing Officer. Our cost reduction initiatives have placed and will continue to place a strain on our management, systems and resources at a critical point in our business and industry. We must continue to refine our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. We must retain, train, supervise and manage our remaining employees during this period of change in our business, and our ability to retain our employees may become more difficult as we face an increasingly competitive landscape with respect to talented employees as the economy begins to re-emerge from the financial crisis. Based on facilitated loan volumes, we may outsource some borrower services functions in an effort to reduce costs, take advantage of technologies and effectively manage the seasonality associated with education loan volume. We rely on our vendors to provide high levels of service and support. Our 23 Table of Contents reliance on external vendors subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely service and could result in fewer loans than we would experience if we performed the service functions in-house. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: •expand our systems effectively; •successfully develop new products or services; •allocate our human resources optimally; •identify, hire and retain qualified employees or vendors; or •incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. We are dependent upon the retention and motivation of certain key employees and the loss of any such employees could adversely affect our business. In addition, our future performance will also depend upon our ability to attract skilled, new employees. If we are unable to manage our cost reductions, or if we lose key employees or are unable to attract new employees, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected. If competitors acquire or develop a private education loan database or advanced loan information processing systems, our business could be adversely affected. We own a database of historical information on private education loan performance that we use to help us enhance our proprietary origination risk score model, determine the terms of portfolio funding transactions and establish the changes in fair value of the additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residual receivables that we recognize as revenue. We also have developed a proprietary loan information processing system to enhance our application processing and loan origination capabilities. We believe that our private education loan database and loan information processing system provide us with a competitive advantage in offering our services. Third parties could create or acquire databases and systems such as ours, and TERI possesses certain historical information related to TERI-guaranteed loans. As lenders and other organizations in the private education loan market originate or service loans, they compile over time information for their own private education loan performance database. Our competitors and potential competitors may have originated or serviced a greater volume of private education loans than we have over the past two fiscal years, which may have provided them with comparatively greater borrower or loan data, particularly during the most recent economic cycle. If a third party creates or acquires a private education loan database or develops a loan information processing system, our competitive positioning, ability to attract new clients and business could be adversely affected. In addition, if TERI were to assert successfully that certain contractual restrictions on the use and sale of its historical loan data terminated in the context of the TERI Reorganization or otherwise, the competitive advantage of our loan database could diminish. As a result of the termination of our agreements with TERI in the context of the TERI Reorganization, we have lost access to continuing updates to the database of TERI-guaranteed loan performance data with regard to TERI-guaranteed loans that are neither held by securitization trusts facilitated by us nor Union Federal. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our historical loan database and proprietary information systems and processes, the value of our services and technology will be adversely affected. We rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our historical loan database and proprietary information systems and processes. We have sought to limit TERI's rights to disclose its historical loan database in the context of the TERI Reorganization, and we have entered into confidentiality agreements with third parties and with some of our employees to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information. These methods may neither effectively 24 Table of Contents prevent use or disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information nor provide meaningful protection for our confidential or proprietary information if there is unauthorized use or disclosure. We own no material patents. Accordingly, our technology, including our loan information processing systems, is not covered by patents that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our market. Monitoring unauthorized use of the systems and processes that we have developed is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and services will be adversely affected. The loan origination process is becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, and we could lose clients and market share if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to process loan applications in an automated, error-free manner. The volume of loan originations that we are able to process is based, in large part, on the systems and processes we have implemented and developed. The loan origination process is becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement such as the ability to process loans over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide initial decisions instantly. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. If competitors introduce products, services, systems and processes that are better than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, those that we offer or use may become obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, if we fail to execute our clients' origination requirements or properly administer our clients' credit agreement templates or required disclosures, we could be subject to breach of contract claims and related damages. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation and ability to obtain and retain clients. We may be required to expend significant funds to develop or acquire new technologies. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, we could lose clients and market share. We also could lose market share if our competitors develop more cost effective technologies than those we offer or develop. Our business could be adversely affected if PHEAA fails to provide adequate or timely services or if our relationship with PHEAA terminates. As of June 30, 2010, PHEAA serviced a substantial majority of private education loans held by the securitization trusts that we administer and served as the sole loan servicer for loan programs based on our Monogram product offering. Our arrangements with PHEAA allow us to avoid the overhead investment in servicing operations, but require us to rely on PHEAA to adequately service the private education loans, including collecting payments, responding to borrower inquiries and communicating with borrowers whose loans have become delinquent. We periodically review the costs associated with establishing servicing operations to service loans. During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we announced that we had entered into negotiations for the acquisition of a loan servicer. We were subsequently unable to agree to terms, and, as of the third quarter of fiscal 2010, negotiations with respect to the contemplated acquisition had terminated. We continue to believe, however, that ownership of a loan servicer could complement our overall strategy and reduce our reliance on an external service provider for loan servicing, which subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely services, including notice of developments in prepayments, delinquencies and defaults, and usage rates for various borrower benefits or temporarily modified payment plans. A substantial increase in these rates could adversely affect our ability to access profitably the securitization markets for our 25 Table of Contents clients' loans and the value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residual receivables. If our relationship with PHEAA terminates, we would either need to expand or develop a relationship with another loan servicer, which could be time consuming and costly. In such event, our business could be adversely affected. An interruption in or breach of our information systems, or those of third parties on which we rely, may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our systems and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users and natural disasters. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan processing or servicing. A failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in an obligation to notify clients in a number of states that require such notification, with possible civil liability resulting from such failure, interruption or breach. Although we maintain and periodically test a business continuity and disaster recovery plan, the majority of our infrastructure and employees are concentrated in the Boston metropolitan area. An interruption in services for any reason could adversely affect our ability to activate our contingency plan if we are unable to communicate among locations or employees. We cannot assure you that failures, interruptions or breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that we or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or communication systems interruptions may not be adequate, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or breach could significantly impair the reputation of our brand, diminish the attractiveness of our services and harm our business. If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties imposed by regulators, civil actions for damages and negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, state and federal legislative proposals, if enacted, may impose additional requirements on us to safeguard confidential customer information, which may result in increased compliance costs. Data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislation, legislative proposals and regulatory rule-making to address data privacy and security. Consequently, we may be subject to rapidly changing and increasingly extensive requirements intended to protect the applicant and borrower information that we process in connection with the loans. Implementation of systems and procedures to address these requirements has increased our compliance costs, and these costs may increase further as new requirements emerge. If we were to experience a data security breach, or if we or the securitization trusts that we administer were to otherwise improperly disclose confidential customer or consumer information, such breach or other disclosure could generate negative publicity about us and could adversely affect our relationships with our clients, including the lenders and educational institutions with which we do business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, such pending legislative proposals and regulations, if adopted, likely would result in substantial penalties for unauthorized disclosure of confidential consumer information. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in regulatory sanctions imposed on our client lenders and loss of business for us. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Financial Reporting and Liquidity If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary materially from those reflected in our financial statements. As compensation for our past securitization activities, we were entitled to receive structural advisory fees and a portion of the residual interests in the securitization trusts that we facilitated. We received up-front structural advisory fees when the securitization trusts purchased the loans, and we continue to be entitled to receive additional structural advisory fees over time, based on the amount of loans outstanding in the trust over the life of the trust. As required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, we recognized the estimated fair value of up-front and additional structural advisory fees and residual receivables as revenue when the securitization trusts purchased the loans because receipt of our fees is not contingent on any further service requirement by us. Quarterly, we update our estimate of the fair value of our receivables, and changes to the fair value, less cash distributions, if any, are recorded as revenue (trust updates) in the period in which the change is made. We are entitled to asset servicing fees for additional services that we are contractually obligated to perform relating to the residual interests in the NCSLT Trusts. We recognize the net present value of asset servicing fees as our services are performed. The receipt of the fees is contingent, however, on distributions available to the owners of the NCSLT Trusts residuals. Quarterly, we update our assumptions with respect to the amount and timing of receipt of these fees, and record the changes in our estimates as revenue (fee updates) in the period in which the change is made. We have no further financial obligation with respect to our additional structural advisory fees or residuals in the securitization trusts we facilitated. However, our fees are subordinate to securities issued to investors in such securitizations, and the trusts may fail to generate any cash flow for us if the securitized assets do not generate enough cash flow to pay debt holders in full or only generate enough cash flow to pay the debt holders. Our projected cash flows from service receivables from certain securitization trusts are expected to be eliminated entirely, and our projected cash flows from other securitization trusts could be delayed, impaired or eliminated, if actual performance differs from our assumptions at June 30, 2010. As of June 30, 2010, we expected to receive additional structural advisory fees and residuals beginning five to 22 years after the date of a particular securitization transaction, consistent with our expectations at June 30, 2009. Because there are no quoted market prices for our service receivables or the portfolio of private education loans held by UFSB-SPV, we use discounted cash flow modeling techniques and certain assumptions to estimate fair value. Our key assumptions to estimate fair value include: discount rates; the annual rate and timing of private education loan prepayments; the trend of interest rates over the life of the loan pool, including the forward LIBOR curve, which is a projection of future LIBOR rates over time; the expected annual rate and timing of loan defaults, including the effects of various risk mitigation strategies and temporarily modified payment plans for borrowers, as well as TERI's obligation to pay default claims; expected amount and timing of recoveries of defaulted loans; the source and amount of guaranty payments made on defaulted loans; and the fees and expenses of the securitization trusts. Because our estimates rely on quantitative and qualitative factors, including historical data and macroeconomic indicators to predict prepayment and default rates, management's ability to determine which factors should be more heavily weighted in our estimates, and to accurately incorporate those factors into our loan performance assumptions, are subjective and can have a material effect on valuations. We adjusted our key accounting assumptions throughout fiscal 2010. During fiscal 2010, we completed initial enhancements to the financial models we employ in developing the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of our service receivables and our portfolio of private education loans held for sale. These refinements resulted in the use of higher default rates, which, when combined with higher discount rates and a downward shift in the forward LIBOR curve, resulted in decreases in the 27 Table of Contents estimated fair value of our service receivables and loans. We benefited in fiscal 2010, however, from lower prepayment rates. The net effect of these adjustments, partially offset by fair value of accretion due to passage of time, was a net decrease of $20.5 million in the value of our additional structural advisory fee, asset servicing fee and residual receivables, and a net loss of $131.0 million in connection with realized losses and fair value adjustments to private education loans held for sale. In general, our adjustments during fiscal 2010 were necessary because the securitization trusts and UFSB-SPV's portfolio of private education loans held for sale performed below our range of expectations, including with regard to delinquencies and defaults. Other contributing factors included higher assumed discount rates and an overall downward shift in the forward LIBOR curve, somewhat offset by lower prepayment rates. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included in Item 7 of this annual report for a discussion of changes in assumptions for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 under the caption "Results of Operations—Years ended June 30, 2010, June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008," and "Executive Summary—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a sensitivity analysis of the additional structural advisory fees to variations in our assumptions and estimates. If the actual performance of the private education loan portfolios held by some or all of the securitization trusts were to vary appreciably from the adjusted assumptions we use, we may need to adjust our key assumptions further. Such an adjustment could materially affect our earnings in the period in which our assumptions change, and the additional structural advisory fees and residuals that we receive from the trusts, and the asset servicing fees that we receive from the owner of the Trust Certificate, could be significantly less than that reflected in our current financial statements. In particular, economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors affecting default and recovery rates on loan portfolios could cause or contribute to differences between actual performance of the portfolios and our key assumptions. With regard to TERI, for purposes of estimating the fair value of our service receivables, we assumed at June 30, 2010 that the application of collateral will occur in accordance with the terms of the Plan of Reorganization, notwithstanding that neither such plan nor the Modified Plan of Reorganization had been confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court as of September 2, 2010. Finally, dislocations in the capital markets have generally resulted in increases in investors' yield requirements for ABS. If such conditions degrade, we may need to further adjust our key assumptions. We will be required to consolidate certain securitization trusts in our financial results after July 1, 2010, which will result in significant changes to the presentation of our financial statements and may result in increased volatility in our reported financial condition and results of operations. The presentation of our consolidated financial statements beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 will differ significantly from the presentation included in this annual report. Historically, each of the securitization trusts created after January 31, 2003 has met the criteria to be a qualified special-purpose entity, or QSPE, as defined by Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 860-40, Transfers and Servicing—Transfers to Qualifying Special Purpose Entities, which we refer to as ASC 860-40. Accordingly, we did not consolidate these existing securitization trusts in our financial statements. In addition, the securitization trusts created prior to January 31, 2003 in which we hold a variable interest that could result in us being considered the primary beneficiary of such trust, have been amended in order for them to be considered QSPEs. Effective July 1, 2010, however, our historical accounting with regard to variable interest entities, including securitization trusts, changed with our adoption of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009-17, Consolidations (Topic 810)—Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved With Variable Interest Entities, which we refer to as ASU 2009-17. Effective July 1, 2010, we consolidated 14 securitization trusts that we facilitated and deconsolidated UFSB-SPV. As a result, we recorded a net increase in total assets and total liabilities of approximately $8.0 billion and $8.8 billion, respectively, and a net decrease in total stockholders' equity of approximately $800 million, comprised of an increase in FMD stockholders' equity of approximately 28 Table of Contents $60 million recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings, more than offset by a non-controlling interest deficit of approximately $860 million. In addition, after July 1, 2010, our results of operations will no longer reflect securitization-related income, trust updates or administrative fees received from the 14 securitization trusts. Instead, we will recognize interest income associated with securitized loan receivables in the same line item as interest income from non-securitized assets, as well as a provision for loan losses, and we will recognize interest expense associated with debt issued by the securitization trusts to third-party investors on the same line item as other interest-bearing liabilities of FMD. We will recognize additional structural advisory fees, administrative and other fees and revenues from residuals only from variable interest entities that were not consolidated. For additional details regarding our adoption of ASU 2009-17, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Consolidation," included in Item 7 of this annual report. ASU 2009-17 requires us to make additional judgments that are subject to change based on new facts and circumstances, and evolving interpretations and practices. Under ASU 2009-17, the determination of whether to consolidate a variable interest entity is based on whether the company is considered to be the primary beneficiary. Such determination is based on both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be significant to the entity. The nature of these determinations, made on an entity-by-entity basis, requires a high level of subjectivity and judgment. Moreover, we are required to continuously reassess whether consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities is appropriate, as opposed to the trigger-based assessment allowed under previous guidance. As a result, determinations that we make from time to time will be susceptible to change. We may be required to consolidate or deconsolidate variable interest entities on a quarterly basis, which, given the size of our variable interest entities, could result in significant changes to our reported assets and liabilities and results of operations during the quarter in which the change occurs. Any such consolidations or deconsolidations, were they to occur, could make comparisons of our financial performance between periods challenging to investors. In addition, our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 will reflect the adoption of new accounting policies, including policies for the determination of an allowance for loan losses and corresponding provisions and the recognition and presentation of loans and related interest income, including related amortization methods, identification of nonaccrual loans and impact of existing or future borrower payment modification programs. We have also adjusted, and may need to further adjust, elements of our information technology infrastructure in order to support our financial reporting following adoption of ASU 2009-17. We have limited experience with our new policies and infrastructure, and we may need to adjust them in the future based on our actual experience, new facts and circumstances, or evolving interpretations and practices. Our liquidity could be adversely affected if the sale of the Trust Certificate does not result in the tax consequences that we expect. Effective March 31, 2009, we completed the sale of the Trust Certificate, representing our ownership interest in NC Residuals Owners Trust, in a transaction intended to improve our financial condition and liquidity. The sale of the Trust Certificate generated a cash refund for income taxes previously paid. The U.S. federal and state income tax consequences of the sale of the Trust Certificate, however, are complex and uncertain. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, has begun an audit of our tax returns for fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009. The IRS or a state taxing authority could challenge our tax positions in connection with the transactions, notwithstanding our receipt of any tax refund. If such a challenge were successful, in whole or in part, we may not keep all or a portion of any refund for taxes previously paid, or we may not eliminate our tax obligations relating to the residuals. In either case, our near-term and long-term financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely 29 Table of Contents affected. In addition, any investigation, audit or suit relating to the sale of the Trust Certificate, including any such proceeding brought by the IRS, could result in substantial costs. We have guaranteed the performance of Union Federal's obligations under a loan purchase and sale agreement and assumed potential contingent liabilities of Union Federal under an indenture. We may incur substantial costs if we have to perform or assume obligations of Union Federal, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. In connection with Union Federal's sale of private education loans in October 2009, we delivered a performance guarantee to the purchaser of the loan portfolio. If Union Federal were to default in the performance of any of its obligations or agreements under the loan purchase and sale agreement, including its indemnification or loan repurchase obligations, we would be required to perform such obligations. As a result, we may incur substantial costs pursuant to the performance guarantee if Union Federal is unable to perform its obligations under the loan purchase and sale agreement. In April 2010, we entered into agreements relating to the restructuring of the education loan warehouse facility of UFSB-SPV. In connection with the restructuring, the third-party conduit lender released potential claims against Union Federal and UFSB-SPV pursuant to the indenture relating to the warehouse facility based upon events arising prior to April 16, 2010, to the extent such claims exceed $20.0 million in the aggregate. Neither Union Federal nor UFSB-SPV would have any liability until the conduit lender's aggregate losses exceed $3.5 million, at which point Union Federal and UFSB-SPV would only be liable for amounts above such amount up to the $20.0 million liability cap. Neither the liability cap nor the $3.5 million deductible would apply, however, in cases of fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence or third-party claims by or on behalf of borrowers against the conduit lender based on loan origination errors. In addition, the release is not deemed a waiver of rights previously reserved but not exercised by the conduit lender, except as specifically released pursuant to a settlement agreement. We assumed any remaining contingent liability of Union Federal and its affiliates, other than UFSB-SPV, under the warehouse facility arising prior to April 16, 2010, subject to the liability cap discussed above. In addition, we assumed any contingent liability of Union Federal under the facility arising prior to April 16, 2010 based on fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence, third-party claims by or on behalf of borrowers against the conduit lender based on loan origination errors or rights not otherwise released by the conduit lender. As a result, we may incur substantial costs in the event of a claim for damages related to the warehouse facility, which could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or financial condition. Changes in interest rates could affect the value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residual receivables, as well as demand for private education loans and our services. Private education loans typically carry floating interest rates tied to prevailing short-term interest rates. Higher interest rates would increase the cost of the loan to the borrower, which in turn, could cause an increase in delinquency and default rates for outstanding education loans, as well as increased use of forbearance or temporarily modified payment plans. Other factors, such as challenging economic times, including high unemployment rates, can also lead to an increase in delinquency and default rates or such use. In addition, higher interest rates, or the perception that interest rates could increase in the future, could cause an increase in prepayments, including full or partial prepayments. If the prepayment or default rates increase for the private education loans held by us or the securitization trusts that we have facilitated, we may experience a decline in the value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residual receivables, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock and could cause future portfolio funding transactions to be less profitable for us. In addition, an increase in interest rates could reduce borrowing for education generally, which, in turn, could cause the overall demand for our services to decline. 30 Table of Contents LIBOR is the underlying rate for most of the trusts' assets and liabilities and changes in LIBOR can have a significant effect on the cash flows generated by each trust. Changes in the forward LIBOR curve affect the principal balances of private education loans held by the trusts, particularly as interest is capitalized during loan deferment, which affects the net interest margin that the trust generates. In addition, certain trusts have issued a tranche of ABS that bears a fixed interest rate. A decrease in the forward LIBOR curve may result in a reduced spread on the fixed interest-rate tranche, which in turn could decrease the estimated fair value of our service receivables. Significant changes to the forward LIBOR curve can also affect the estimated fair value of our additional structural advisory fees, which bear interest at the rate of LIBOR plus a spread to the extent such fees are accrued but unpaid by the trusts. If sufficient funds to finance our business, including Union Federal, are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, then we may be required to delay, scale back or alter our strategy. We may require additional funds for our products, our operating expenses, credit enhancement for loan programs, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs primarily through private education loan asset-backed securitizations. The securitization market has not been available to us and may not be available to us when needed in the future, and, if available, the terms may not be acceptable to us. We have also satisfied our funding needs through equity financings. We cannot be certain that additional public or private financing would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Although we believe that our capital resources as of June 30, 2010, which include proceeds of tax refunds under audit as of September 2, 2010, are sufficient to satisfy our operating needs for the succeeding twelve months, we cannot assure you that they will be sufficient to provide amounts that we may determine to be necessary or appropriate to contribute to prospective clients related to new programs. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our products and further scale back our expenses. In addition, our short-term financing needs are subject to regulatory capital requirements related to Union Federal. See Note 21, "Union Federal Regulatory Matters—Regulatory Capital Requirements," in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional details. Risks Related to Asset-Backed Securitizations and Other Funding Sources We have historically recognized a significant portion of our revenue and substantially all of our income from structuring securitization transactions; our financial results and future growth may continue to be adversely affected if we are unable to structure securitizations or alternative financings. In the past, we did not charge separate fees for many of our services, but generally entered into agreements with clients giving us the exclusive right to securitize the private education loans that they did not intend to hold. As a result, we have historically recognized a significant portion of our revenue and substantially all of our income from structuring securitization transactions. We have not completed a securitization since the first quarter of fiscal 2008, contributing to our net losses for each subsequent quarter. Although our Monogram product offering has been designed to generate recurring revenue with less dependence on the securitization market and third-party credit enhancement, we have limited experience with it and, as of September 2, 2010, expect to have fully deployed it to only two clients by September 30, 2010. In addition, our future financial results and growth may continue to be affected by our inability to structure securitizations or alternative financing transactions involving private education loans. In particular, such transactions may enable us to access and recycle capital previously deployed as credit enhancement for Monogram-based loan programs. If we are able to facilitate securitizations in the near-term, we expect the structure and economics of the transactions to be substantially different than our past transactions, including lower revenues and additional cash requirements on our part. 31 Table of Contents If we continue to be unable to access the ABS market, our revenues may continue to be adversely impacted, and we may continue to generate net losses, which would further erode our liquidity position. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected if we do not achieve widespread market acceptance of loan programs based on our Monogram product offering. Since the beginning of fiscal 2009, we have significantly refined our service offerings and added fee-for-service offerings, such as portfolio management and asset servicing. During fiscal 2010, we completed the development of our Monogram product offering and entered into Monogram loan program agreements with SunTrust Bank and Kinecta Federal Credit Union pursuant to which we expect to generate ongoing monthly revenue through the maturity of the program loans. Deployment of this product has been limited, however, and we will need to gain widespread market acceptance of our Monogram product in order to improve our long-term financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our portfolio funding activities and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our business may depend on our ability to structure securitizations or other funding transactions for our clients' loan portfolios. Several factors have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on both our ability to structure funding transactions and the revenue we may generate for providing our structural advisory and other services, including the following: •persistent and prolonged disruption or volatility in the capital markets generally or in the private education loan ABS sector specifically, which could continue to restrict or delay our access to the capital markets; •our inability to structure and gain market acceptance for new products or services to meet new demands of ABS investors or credit facility providers; •continuing degradation of the credit quality or performance of the loan portfolios of the trusts we have facilitated, which could reduce or eliminate investor demand for future securitizations that we facilitate, particularly for subordinate classes of ABS, or result in material, adverse modifications in rating agency assumptions, ratings or conclusions with respect to the securitization trusts; •rating agency actions, including downgrades, of ABS that we facilitated in the past or any occurrence of an event of default with respect to such securities, which could reduce demand for additional securitizations that we structure; •developments in connection with the TERI Reorganization, including the confirmation and effectiveness of the Modified Plan of Reorganization, as it relates to the implementations of the settlements involving the NCSLT Trusts contemplated by the plan and recoveries to us in respect of our claims as a general unsecured creditor; •material breach of our obligations to clients, including securitization trusts and former or current lender clients; •the timing and size of private education loan asset-backed securitizations that other parties facilitate, or the adverse performance of, or other problems with, such securitizations, which could impact pricing or demand for our future securitizations, if any; •challenges to the enforceability of private education loans based on violations of federal or state consumer protection or licensing laws and related regulations, or imposition of penalties or liabilities on assignees of private education loans for violation of such laws and regulations; and •changes to bankruptcy laws that change the current non-dischargeable status of education-related loans, which could materially adversely affect recovery rates on defaulted loans. 32 Table of Contents Capital markets dislocations, and the timing, size and structure of any future capital markets transactions, could greatly affect our quarterly financial results. Continuing dislocations in the capital markets, reductions in the valuations of our service receivables and the size, structure or economic terms of our future capital markets transactions, if any, could increase the variability of our operating results on a quarterly basis. We expect the structure and pricing terms in near-term future transactions, if any, to be less favorable than in the past. Recent legislation will affect the terms of future securitization transactions. The SEC has proposed new rules governing ABS issuance that, due to the requirements for risk retention, may affect the desirability of issuing ABS as a funding strategy. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act grants federal banking regulators substantial discretion in developing specific risk retention requirements for all types of consumer credit products and requires the SEC to establish new data requirements for all issuers, including standards for data format, asset-level or loan-level data, the nature and extent of the compensation of the broker or originator, and the amount of risk retention required by loan securitizers. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, once adopted, will affect the terms of future securitization transactions, if any, that we facilitate and may result in greater risk retention and less flexibility for us in structuring such transactions. In structuring and facilitating securitizations of our clients' loans, administering securitization trusts or as holders of rights to receive residual cash flows in non-NCSLT Trusts, we may incur liabilities to transaction parties. We facilitated and structured a number of different special purpose trusts that have been used in securitizations to finance private education loans that our clients originated, including trusts that have issued auction rate notes. Under applicable state and federal securities laws, if investors incur losses as a result of purchasing ABS that those trusts have issued, we could be deemed responsible and could be liable to those investors for damages. If we failed to cause the trusts or other transaction parties to disclose adequately all material information regarding an investment in the ABS, if the trust made statements that were misleading in any material respect in information delivered to investors or if we breach any duties as the structuring advisor or administrator of the securitization trusts, it is possible that we could be sued and ultimately held liable to noteholders or other transaction parties. The Modified Plan of Reorganization would provide exculpation for certain of our actions as administrator of the trusts in connection with the TERI Reorganization, but the Modified Plan of Reorganization may not become effective and the exculpation may not cover all of our actions as administrator of the trusts in the TERI Reorganization. Recent investigations by state attorneys general, as well as private litigation, have focused on auction rate securities, including the marketing and trading of such securities. It is possible that we could become involved in such matters in the future. In addition, under various agreements entered into with underwriters or financial guaranty insurers of those ABS, as well as certain lenders, we are contractually bound to indemnify those persons if investors are successful in seeking to recover losses from those parties and the trusts are found to have made materially misleading statements or to have omitted material information. If we are liable for losses investors or other transaction parties incur in any of the securitizations that we facilitated or structured and any insurance that we may have does not cover this liability or proves to be insufficient, our results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to the TERI Reorganization The Creditors Committee has challenged the enforceability of certain of the trusts' security interests, which may result in additional delay and expense, as well as a significant reduction in collateral available to the trusts. As a result of the automatic stay under the Bankruptcy Code, TERI ceased purchasing defaulted loans, including defaulted loans from the NCSLT Trusts, in April 2008. In June 2008, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving a motion by TERI to honor its guaranty agreement obligations using cash in segregated reserve accounts pledged to the NCSLT Trusts to secure TERI's guaranty obligations, which we refer to as the Pledged Accounts. Beginning in July 2008, TERI resumed paying its obligations under the guaranty agreements with respect to defaulted loans from the trusts, but only using cash in the Pledged Account established for the benefit of the specific trusts that owned the defaulted loan. As of September 2, 2010, TERI was not permitted to satisfy its guaranty obligations using funds from TERI's general reserves. Funds in the Pledged Accounts of certain trusts have been exhausted, or are expected to be exhausted in the near term, at which point such trusts will have a general unsecured claim against TERI. The Bankruptcy Court's June 2008 order granted parties rights to challenge the trusts' security interests in the collateral other than the Pledged Accounts. In January 2009, the Creditors Committee filed an adversary complaint in the Bankruptcy Court against the owner trustee and indenture trustee of 17 securitization trusts, and against our subsidiary First Marblehead Data Services, Inc., as administrator of such trusts. The complaint generally alleges that the security interests granted by TERI to the trusts, excluding the security interests in the Pledged Accounts, are unperfected or may otherwise be avoided under the Bankruptcy Code. In particular, the complaint alleges that the trusts do not have enforceable rights to future recoveries on defaulted loans transferred by the trusts to TERI with an aggregate principal and accrued interest balance of more than $598.0 million as of June 30, 2010, or in amounts owed or transferred by TERI to Pledged Accounts after the filing of TERI's petition for reorganization totaling more than $47.0 million as of June 30, 2010. In February 2009, pending resolution of the issues raised previously in the Creditors Committee's complaint, the trusts generally suspended the transfer of defaulted loans to TERI and generally suspended requests for default claim payments from amounts in the Pledged Accounts. The Plan of Reorganization included a proposed settlement of the adversary complaint, as well as other provisions that would affect the claims of the NCSLT Trusts. Upon the effective date of the Plan of Reorganization, the litigation regarding the security interests of the trusts would have been settled in accordance with the plan and dismissed with prejudice. In April 2010, all of the NCSLT Trusts voted or were deemed to vote in favor of the Plan of Reorganization, thereby electing to accept the settlement of their respective claims provided in the plan. In April 2010, the Bankruptcy Court held a hearing to consider confirmation of the Plan of Reorganization and made findings that the Plan of Reorganization met the requirements for confirmation under the Bankruptcy Code. Following such hearing, however, TERI and the Creditors Committee filed with the Bankruptcy Court a motion to modify the Plan of Reorganization. We objected to the proposed modifications, in our respective capacities as a general unsecured creditor and administrator to the trusts, and sought to have an order entered confirming the Plan of Reorganization on its original terms. In July 2010, the Bankruptcy Court denied the motion by TERI and the Creditors Committee to modify the Plan of Reorganization and vacated the earlier findings that the Plan of Reorganization met the requirements for confirmation. The Bankruptcy Court ordered TERI and the Creditors Committee to file a fifth amended plan of reorganization prior to August 27, 2010, unless they could negotiate acceptable changes to the Plan of Reorganization. On August 26, 2010, TERI and the Creditors Committee filed a second joint motion to modify the Plan of Reorganization, approve revised disclosure materials and approve procedures by which creditors who previously voted on the Plan of Reorganization would have the opportunity to change their vote with respect to the Modified Plan of Reorganization. On August 31, 2010, the Bankruptcy Court approved 34 Table of Contents the disclosure materials and the solicitation procedures, subject to entry of a formal order, and the solicitation of votes on the Modified Plan of Reorganization is expected to commence on or about September 13, 2010. The Modified Plan of Reorganization would change the terms of the NCSLT Trusts' settlements compared to the settlements proposed in the Plan of Reorganization, including the terms of the settlement of the adversary complaint. See Note 12, "Commitments and Contingencies—TERI Reorganization," in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional details. If the Modified Plan of Reorganization, or a successor plan that provides for settlement of the adversary complaint, is not consummated and if the Creditors Committee or any other party is successful in challenging the trusts' security interests, the amount of pledged collateral available exclusively to a particular securitization trust to satisfy TERI's guaranty obligations to that trust would decrease materially. As a result, the trust's unsecured claims against TERI would increase proportionately. For example, recoveries from defaulted private education loans transferred to TERI, which have historically been used to replenish a particular trust's Pledged Account, would instead become an asset of TERI's bankruptcy estate available for distribution to other holders of claims. The settlement of the adversary complaint, in the context of the Plan of Reorganization or otherwise, could also result in a material decrease in the amount of pledged collateral available exclusively to a particular securitization trust. A challenge to the security interests could delay distributions to creditors, and a successful challenge to the security interests could decrease materially the value of our additional structural advisory fees or our asset servicing fees by decreasing the pledged collateral available exclusively to the NCSLT Trusts. The TERI Reorganization will adversely affect our ability to facilitate the securitization of TERI-guaranteed loans, and could adversely affect our cash flows from the securitization trusts. In its role as guarantor, TERI agreed to reimburse lenders for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted loans. TERI had historically been the exclusive provider of borrower default guarantees for our clients' private education loans. Under the terms of our past purchase agreements with lender clients, we generally have an obligation to use our best efforts to facilitate the purchase of a client's TERI-guaranteed loans during a specified loan purchase period. The TERI Reorganization has adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, our ability to facilitate the securitization of TERI-guaranteed loans. As a result of the TERI Reorganization, no value can be ascribed to the TERI guaranty beyond a trust's Pledged Account. As a result, in structuring future securitizations of loans guaranteed or formerly guaranteed by TERI, if any, we would likely be required to reduce or eliminate our up-front structural advisory fee in order to increase the level of reserves available to the trust. In addition, it is likely that we would need to obtain additional credit enhancement for any future securitizations of such loans, the cost of which would also result in lower revenues. In general, the termination of the TERI guaranty in the TERI Reorganization would terminate our purchase obligations under the purchase agreements. We may be subject to claims, however, that we breached our contractual obligations under our past purchase agreements, which could adversely affect our business reputation. In addition, our financial results would be adversely affected if we were required to defend or pay damages in connection with any such claim. To the extent that the Pledged Account available to a particular NCSLT Trust is exhausted and loan defaults continue to occur, that NCSLT Trust would have a related claim as an unsecured creditor of TERI in the context of the TERI Reorganization. TERI's general reserves will be insufficient to satisfy fully the claims of unsecured creditors, and therefore loan defaults would have a further adverse effect on the amount or timing of cash flows that would otherwise be expected to be generated by the NCSLT Trust, which would adversely affect the value of our service receivables, including our asset servicing and additional structural advisory fees. 35 Table of Contents Our claims against TERI will not be settled by the Modified Plan of Reorganization, and our potential recovery from TERI's bankruptcy estate on our general unsecured claim has been eroded by the costs and pace of the reorganization proceeding. In October 2008, we filed proofs of claim against TERI alleging rejection damages and other claims in excess of $87.0 million. These alleged general unsecured trade claims would not be settled by the Modified Plan of Reorganization, and we have not reflected any recovery from our claims against TERI in our financial statements. TERI and the Creditors Committee have stated that they believe that our claims are substantially inflated and seek damages that are not compensable under state law. The amount and validity of our claims against TERI may require litigation, which could be time-consuming and costly, to resolve, and we cannot assure you that our alleged claims would be allowed in full. In addition, the amount of our ultimate recovery from TERI's bankruptcy estate in respect of our claims is difficult to estimate. The compensation and other operating expenses of TERI, together with the expenses of its professional advisors and those of the Creditors Committee, during the course of the reorganization proceeding will have consumed a significant portion of TERI's unrestricted cash. Based on filings made with the Bankruptcy Court, TERI had unrestricted cash and marketable securities of $83.1 million as of April 30, 2008, but expects only $42.3 million to remain available for transfer to the liquidating trust under the Modified Plan of Reorganization, assuming such plan becomes effective on September 30, 2010. As a result, general unsecured creditors of TERI will receive a small portion of their claims in cash shortly following the effectiveness of any plan of reorganization. The larger portion of their respective claims will only be received by creditors based on the level of recoveries on defaulted loans previously transferred to TERI. Those recoveries are expected to be collected over many years, and the recovery rate will depend on the experience and skill of the party or parties managing collections with respect to such loans. Under the Modified Plan of Reorganization, reorganized TERI would manage collections with respect to the portion of such loans for which TERI is currently managing collections. As of September 2, 2010, we are managing collections on behalf of TERI with regard to the remainder of such loans. We have only agreed to continue providing such services for up to 90 days following the effective date of the Modified Plan of Reorganization. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that the plan trustee will seek to engage us following the effectiveness of any plan of reorganization or that we will be able to reach acceptable terms with such plan trustee regarding our continued services. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters We will become subject to new regulations which could increase our costs of compliance and alter our business practices. Regulators have increased diligence and enforcement efforts and new laws and regulations have been passed or are under consideration in Congress as a result of turbulence in the financial services industry. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and the federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. In addition, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act would not apply to us if Union Federal is sold. The Dodd-Frank Act also restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS, which is currently the primary federal regulator for FMD and Union Federal, will cease to exist on July 21, 2011 unless the Secretary of the Treasury opts to delay such date for up to an additional six months. The OCC, which is currently the primary federal regulator for national banks, will become the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts, including Union Federal. The Federal Reserve will supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies that were 36 Table of Contents formerly regulated by the OTS, including FMD. Although the OCC and Federal Reserve are directed to implement existing OTS regulations, orders, resolutions, determinations and agreements for thrifts and their holding companies under HOLA, the transition of supervisory functions from the OTS to the OCC (with respect to Union Federal) and the Federal Reserve (with respect to FMD) could alter the supervisory approach for Union Federal and FMD. This could in turn affect the operations of FMD and Union Federal. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies, but they are not effective for five years. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the BCFP as an independent agency within the Federal Reserve to regulate consumer financial products, including education loans, and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes, with rule-making and enforcement authority over unfair, deceptive or abusive practices. These laws may directly impact our business operations, whether or not Union Federal is sold. The potential reach of the BCFP's broad new rulemaking powers and enforcement authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including FMD, is currently unknown. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a private education loan ombudsman within the BCFP, which would, among other things, receive, review and attempt to resolve informally complaints from private education loan borrowers. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the BCFP and the Secretary of Education, in consultation with FTC commissioners and the Attorney General, to submit a report, within two years of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, on a variety of information relating to the private education lending market, including private education loan lenders. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes several provisions that could affect our future portfolio funding transactions, if any, including "skin in the game" risk retention requirements applicable to any entity that organizes and initiates an ABS transaction, new disclosure and reporting requirements for each tranche of ABS, including new loan-level data requirements, and new disclosure requirements relating to the representations, warranties and enforcement mechanisms available to ABS investors. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, including through increased operating and compliance costs. In addition, regulators and enforcement officials are taking increasingly expansive positions with respect to whether certain products or product terms may run afoul of state and federal unfair or deceptive acts and practices laws. These and other regulatory changes could result in, among other things, increased compliance costs, more limited lending markets and alterations to our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. We are subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and Union Federal is regulated extensively. As a result of our acquisition of Union Federal in November 2006, we became subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and our business is limited to activities that are financial or real-estate related. The OTS has certain types of enforcement authority over us, including the ability in certain circumstances to review and approve changes in management and compensation arrangements, issue additional cease-and-desist orders, force divestiture of Union Federal and impose civil and monetary penalties for violations of federal banking laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Any such actions could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity or ability to execute our business plan. In addition, Union Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and the FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including activities and investments, lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capitalization, risk management policies and procedures, relationships with affiliated companies, efforts to combat money laundering, recordkeeping and conduct and qualifications of personnel. In particular, the failure to meet minimum capital requirements could 37 Table of Contents initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial statements. We have in the past been required to make capital infusions to Union Federal, and regulatory authorities could require additional capital infusions or take other corrective measures in the future. There is a risk that we could incur additional costs in complying with regulations applicable to savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules depends largely on our establishment and maintenance of a system to ensure such compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Further reductions in staffing levels could make it difficult to retain experienced personnel to maintain adequate internal controls related to regulatory matters. If severe failures in internal controls occur, regulatory authorities could impose sanctions on Union Federal or us. We could in the future be subject to additional supervisory orders to cease and desist, civil monetary penalties or other actions due to claimed noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the OTS and replaces it with the OCC as the regulator of federal savings banks, such as Union Federal, and with the Federal Reserve as the regulator of savings and loan holding companies, such as FMD. There is a risk that we could incur additional costs in complying with differing interpretations of these new regulators for savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. We may become subject to state registration or licensing requirements. If we determine that we are subject to the registration or licensing requirements of any jurisdiction, our compliance costs could increase significantly and other adverse consequences may result. Many states have statutes and regulations that require the licensure of small loan lenders, loan brokers, credit services organizations and loan arrangers. Some of these statutes are drafted or interpreted to cover a broad scope of activities. As of September 2, 2010, our subsidiary FMER has been approved for licenses in Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Texas. Although we believe that our prior consultations with regulatory counsel and, in some cases state regulators, have identified all material licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements that could be applicable to us based on current laws and the manner in which we currently conduct business, we may be subject to additional state licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements in the future. In particular, certain state licenses or registrations may be required if we divest Union Federal, if we change our operations, if regulators reconsider their prior guidance or if federal or state laws or regulations are changed. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act weakens federal pre-emption of state regulations currently enjoyed by federal savings associations and their operating subsidiaries, such as Union Federal and its operating subsidiary, FMLOS. Even if we are not physically present in a state, its regulators may take the position that registration or licensing is required because we provide services to borrowers located in the state by mail, telephone, the Internet or other remote means. Absent a change in federal law, either by judicial interpretation or legislation, including as discussed above, to the extent that our services are conducted through Union Federal, we believe it is less likely that state regulatory requirements affecting loan brokers, small lenders, credit services organizations or loan arrangers will be asserted. However, we are examining strategic alternatives for Union Federal, including a potential sale and, as noted above, the Dodd-Frank Act weakens federal pre-emption of state regulations currently enjoyed by federal savings and loan holding companies and their operating subsidiaries, such as Union Federal and FMLOS. Specifically, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates for operating subsidiaries of federal banks the pre-emption of state licensing requirements. In addition, we may now be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. We will continue to review state registration and licensing requirements, and we intend to pursue registration or 38 Table of Contents licensing in applicable jurisdictions where we are not currently registered or licensed if we elect to operate through an entity that does not enjoy federal pre-emption. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining additional state licenses or registrations in a timely manner, or at all. If we determine that additional state registrations or licenses are necessary, we may be required to delay or restructure our activities in a manner that will not subject us to such licensing or registration requirements. Compliance with state licensing requirements could involve additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to, among other things: •curtailment of our ability to continue to conduct business in the relevant jurisdiction, pending a return to compliance or processing of registration or a license application; •administrative enforcement actions; •class action lawsuits; •the assertion of legal defenses delaying or otherwise affecting the enforcement of loans; and •criminal as well as civil liability. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be exposed to liability for failures of third parties with which we do business to comply with the registration, licensing and other requirements that apply to them. Third parties with which we do, or have done, business, including federal and state chartered financial institutions, non-bank loan marketers, as well as TERI, are subject to registration, licensing and extensive governmental regulations, including TILA and other consumer protection laws and regulations. For example, some of the third-party marketers with which we have done or may do business may be subject to state registration or licensing requirements and laws and regulations, including those relating to small loans, loan brokers, credit services organizations and loan arrangers. As a result of the activities that we conduct or may conduct for our clients, it may be asserted that we have some responsibility for compliance by third parties with which we do business with the laws and regulations applicable to them, whether on contractual or other grounds. If it is determined that we have failed to comply with our obligations with respect to these third parties, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability. Even if we bear no legal liability for the actions of these third parties, the imposition of licensing and registration requirements on them, or any sanctions against them for conducting business without a license or registration, may reduce the volume of loans we process from them in the future. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or litigation, including class actions, and have a material adverse effect on our business. The federal government and state governments regulate extensively the financial institutions and other entities that originate loans in the private education loan market. These regulations include bankruptcy, tax, usury, disclosure, credit reporting, identity theft, privacy, fraud and abuse and other laws to protect borrowers. Changes in consumer protection laws or related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, may expose us to litigation, result in greater compliance costs, constrain the marketing of private education loans, adversely affect the collection of balances due on the loan assets held by securitization trusts or otherwise adversely affect our business. We could incur substantial additional expense complying with these requirements and may be required to create new processes and information systems. Moreover, changes in the consumer protection laws and related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, could invalidate or call into question the legality of certain of our services and business practices. 39 Table of Contents The risk of noncompliance with regulatory requirements by our lender clients and their marketing partners has been highlighted by state and federal investigations into education loan marketing practices, particularly the payment of marketing fees directly to schools in exchange for loan referrals. State and federal regulatory authorities have sought information from some of our former clients and us regarding the loan programs we coordinated, and it is possible that some marketing or underwriting practices associated with the programs we coordinated and assets we securitized will be challenged as a result of such investigations. In August 2007, we announced that, as part of the New York Attorney General's ongoing investigation of several lending, educational and nonprofit institutions, we had received a subpoena for information regarding our role in the education loan industry. During fiscal 2008, we worked with the New York Attorney General's office regarding the investigation, and we have not received any further requests for information since May 2008. The regulatory actions described above have also prompted state and federal legislation that will affect our operations. In August 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued regulations to implement provisions of the Higher Education Opportunity Act. The regulations revised the number, timing, and content of disclosures required for private education loans by TILA and the Federal Reserve Board's implementing regulation for TILA, Regulation Z. Under the regulations, private education loan creditors are now required to provide disclosures about loan terms and features on or with the loan application and are also required to disclose information about federal education loan programs that may offer less costly alternatives to private education loans. Additional disclosures must be provided when the loan is approved and after loan acceptance but prior to loan disbursement. Compliance with the new regulations became mandatory in February 2010. In addition, in December 2009, the Federal Reserve Board and the FTC announced final rules to implement the risk-based pricing provisions of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003. The final rules will generally require that lenders provide disclosures to certain consumers if credit is offered to them on less favorable terms than those offered by the lender to other consumers. Compliance with the disclosure requirements is mandatory as of January 1, 2011. Violations of the laws or regulations governing our operations, or the operations of our clients, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services or our exclusion from participating in education loan programs. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impair our business reputation and ability to operate our business. In addition, the loan assets held by securitization trusts that we have structured could be adversely impacted by violation of tax or consumer protection laws. In such event, the value of our residual interests or asset servicing fees could also be adversely impacted. In some cases, such violations may render the loan assets unenforceable. A recent Supreme Court decision, and recent legislative proposals, could affect the non-dischargeability of private education loans in bankruptcy. Under current law, private education loans can be discharged in bankruptcy only upon a court finding of "undue hardship" if the borrower were required to continue to make loan payments. The bankruptcy court must hear evidence and make a finding of "undue hardship" in order to discharge the debtor's private education loans. In March 2010, the United States Supreme Court upheld a bankruptcy confirmation order which discharged a debtor's private education loans without a finding of "undue hardship" by the bankruptcy court. Specifically, the debtor's proposed plan, which the bankruptcy court ultimately approved, included a discharge of the debtor's private education loans; however, the bankruptcy court never heard evidence or made a finding of "undue hardship." As a result of the Supreme Court's decision, it may be advisable for us, in performing collections management for the securitization trusts and our clients, to review certain bankruptcy filings that we do not currently review to determine if plans include a discharge of private education loans without the necessary adversary 40 Table of Contents proceeding and a finding of "undue hardship." Such additional review could increase our costs and the complexity of our operations. In April 2010, legislation was introduced in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives that would generally end the bankruptcy exemption from dischargeability for all private education loans. If enacted as initially proposed, both bills would apply retroactively to loans already made, and would not require the borrower to make any payments before seeking discharge in bankruptcy. If enacted, these bills could adversely affect the performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions we used, including recovery assumptions, to estimate the fair value of our additional structural advisory fees. In addition, these bills, if enacted, may restrict the availability of capital to fund private education loans and may increase loan pricing to borrowers to compensate for the additional risk of bankruptcy discharge, which could adversely affect the competitiveness of our Monogram product and our ability to engage lenders to fund loans based on our Monogram product offering. In July 2009, legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate that would allow private education loan borrowers to "swap" their private loan debt for federal unsubsidized Stafford or graduate/professional PLUS debt to the extent that previous Stafford or PLUS loans, as applicable, to such borrowers had not exceeded the aggregate limits established by federal law for such loans. Private education loans made between July 1, 1994 and July 1, 2010 would be eligible for such a swap. Borrowers could not be more than 90 days delinquent on their private education loans in order to qualify. In April 2010, similar debt-swap legislation was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives. If either bill is enacted, borrowers with loans in the securitization trusts could exchange their private education loans for federal Stafford, PLUS, and/or Direct Consolidation loans. Accordingly, the bill could adversely affect the performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions that we have used to estimate the fair value of our additional structural advisory fees. Recent litigation has sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders; if litigation on similar theories were successful against us or any third-party marketer we have worked with in the past, the loans that we facilitate would be subject to individual state consumer protection laws. All of the lenders with which we work are federally-insured banks and credit unions and, therefore, in most cases, are able to charge the interest rates, fees and other charges available to the most favored lender in their home state. In addition, our lender clients or prospective lender clients may be chartered by the federal government and enjoy pre-emption from enforcement of state consumer protection laws. In providing our private education loan services to our clients, we do not act as a lender, guarantor or loan servicer, and the terms of the loans that we facilitate are regulated in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the lenders. The association between marketers of high-interest "payday" loans, tax-return anticipation loans, or subprime credit cards, and online payment services, on the one hand, and banks, on the other hand, has come under recent scrutiny. Recent litigation asserts that loan marketers use lenders with a bank charter that authorizes the lender to charge the most favored interest rate available in the lender's home state in order to evade usury and interest rate caps, and other consumer protection laws imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought, successfully in some instances, to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. Moreover, federal banking regulators and the Federal Trade Commission have undertaken enforcement actions challenging the activities of certain loan marketers and their bank partners, particularly in the context of subprime credit cards. We believe that our activities, and the activities of third parties whose marketing on behalf of lenders has been coordinated by us, are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. 41 Table of Contents Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the loans we facilitate if we, or any third-party loan marketer engaged by us or a bank whose loans we facilitate, were re-characterized as a lender, and the loans (or the provisions governing interest rates, fees and other charges) could be unenforceable unless we or a third-party loan marketer had the requisite licenses or other authority to make such loans. In addition, we could be subject to claims by consumers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost to us. As of September 2, 2010, there have been no actions taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending; however, if such actions occurred, they could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in your shares of our common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: •the success of our Monogram product offering or our fee-for-service offerings; •announcement by us, our competitors or our potential competitors of acquisitions, new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital markets activities; •actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts, including as a result of the timing, size or structure of any portfolio funding transactions; •difficulties we may encounter in structuring securitizations or alternative financings, including continued disruptions in the private education loan ABS market or demand for securities offered by trusts that we facilitate, or the loss of opportunities to structure securitization transactions; •any variance between the actual performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions that we have used to estimate the fair value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees, residual receivables and private education loans held for sale, including among others, discount, net default and prepayment rates; •general economic conditions and trends, including unemployment rates and economic pressure on consumer asset classes such as private education loans; •developments in the TERI Reorganization, including consummation of the Plan of Reorganization and resolution of the challenges to the trusts' security interests in collateral securing TERI's guaranty obligations; •legislative initiatives affecting federal or private education loans, including initiatives relating to bankruptcy dischargeability and the federal budget and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act; •changes in demand for our product and service offerings or in the education finance marketplace generally; •negative publicity about the private education loan market generally or us specifically; •regulatory developments or sanctions directed at Union Federal or us; •adverse rating agency actions with respect to the securitization trusts that we facilitated; 42 Table of Contents •adoption of ASU 2009-17 and its effects on our reported financial condition and results of operations; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market and volatility in the ABS market, from time to time; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services and process outsourcing companies; •major catastrophic events; •purchases or sales of large blocks of our common stock or other strategic investments involving us; or •departures or long-term unavailability of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, who we believe has unique insights and experience at this point of change in our business and the private education loan industry. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We have in the past been the target of securities litigation. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business. Insiders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, owned approximately 22% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of June 30, 2010, excluding shares issuable upon vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding vested and unvested stock options and shares of preferred stock held by affiliates of GS Capital Partners, or GSCP, convertible into 8,846,733 additional shares of our common stock. Affiliates of GSCP have agreed not to convert shares of preferred stock if, after giving effect to any such conversion, they and their affiliates would own more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Approximately 5,138,803 additional shares of common stock could be issued to affiliates of GSCP upon conversion of shares of preferred stock before they and their affiliates would own more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, could substantially influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may deter third-parties from acquiring us. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors, including the following: •only our Board of Directors, our Chairman of the Board or our President may call special meetings of our stockholders; •our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; 43 Table of Contents •we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; •our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present, or by the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and •we impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder," which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 