Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations and financial results. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. To fund our expansion plan and continued operations, we must raise additional funds in the near term, which may be difficult to obtain on terms favorable to us, if at all. In the near term, we will require substantial funds beyond our current cash on hand in order to fully build-out our first production line, to commence and support commercial production as currently planned, to fund future operations, and to expand our capacity beyond our first production line. We are currently considering various alternatives to secure the necessary additional financing to maintain our production scale-up and commercialization plans. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Any debt financing or additional equity financing may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Given the current market conditions, we cannot provide assurance that such financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we fail to raise adequate funds on terms acceptable to us, we will be required to delay or terminate certain of our scale-up and commercialization activities and otherwise cease or scale-back our operations; or merge, consolidate or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us. Completing either a financing transaction or a merger, consolidation or combination with another company will be difficult in light of the current market conditions. 9 Table of Contents The U.S. economy is currently undergoing unprecedented turmoil amid stock market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, tightening of the credit markets, softness in the housing markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, reduced consumer spending, and continuing economic uncertainties. This turmoil and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our ability to obtain debt or equity financing of our operations. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected as concerns about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic downturn. Our independent auditor’s report expresses doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise additional capital. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm relating to our financial statements as of December 31, 2008 and for the year then ended, stated that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to take advantage of raising capital through securities offerings, debt financing, or partnerships. Management is focusing on raising capital through any one or more of these options. Such opinion from our outside auditors may make it more difficult and expensive to for us to raise additional capital. If we are unable to obtain such financing we may not be able to continue our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price and significantly impair our prospects. There can be no assurance that any of management’s plans will be successfully implemented. We have incurred net losses since our inception and anticipate continued net losses as we execute our commercialization plan. Since our inception, we have incurred net losses, including net losses of $26.3 million and $36.1 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and have incurred negative cash flows from operations. As a result of ongoing losses, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $97.0 million as of December 31, 2008. We expect to continue to incur significant losses as we enter commercialization and expand our manufacturing capacity and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase to the extent we continue to develop our manufacturing technologies, build manufacturing lines, establish our sales and distribution network, implement internal systems and infrastructure and hire additional personnel. As we do not expect to become profitable until after we expand capacity beyond our initial manufacturing line, if ever, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations solely from cash generated from operations. If, for any reason, we are unable to make required payments under our obligations, one or more of our creditors may take action to collect their debts. If we continue to incur substantial losses and are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to discontinue or curtail our business operations; sell assets at unfavorable prices; refinance existing debt obligations on terms unfavorable to us; or merge, consolidate or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for our solar modules, and adversely impact our operating results. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for on-grid solar electricity may result in the diminished competitiveness of solar energy relative to conventional and non-solar renewable sources of energy, and could materially and adversely affect the growth of the solar energy industry. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, 10 Table of Contents where solar energy is used to supplement the electricity a consumer purchases from the utility network, depends significantly on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, France, Greece, Portugal, South Korea, Japan, Canada and the United States, have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax incentives and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators and manufacturers of photovoltaic products. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time or require renewal by the applicable authority. For example, the German Renewable Energy Law, or the EEG, has recently been modified by the German Government. Feed-in-tariffs were significantly reduced compared with the former legislation. The amended law became effective January 1, 2009. German subsidies now decline at a rate of between 8% and 10% in 2009 (based on the type of the photovoltaic system) instead of between 5% and 6.5% prior to effective date of the amendment. The rate of decrease is subject to change based on the overall market growth. For example, the rate of decrease in feed-in-tariffs in 2010 will be increased by 1% if the market is larger than 1500 MW or decreased by 1% if it is smaller than 1000 MW. The next review of feed-in-tariffs is scheduled for 2012; however, earlier adjustments are possible. If the German government reduces or eliminates the subsidies under the EEG, demand for photovoltaic products could significantly decline in Germany. In Spain, the Spanish government published a new decree for photovoltaics on September 27, 2008, which became effective on September 28, 2008. The new legislation replaces the previous decree, from which it differs in some basic respects. It distinguishes between system types, namely between roof-mounted and ground-mounted systems, it implements a flexible mechanism that links the feed-in-tariffs to market development along with annual caps and it introduces a mechanism of licenses for installations that will be given out in four quarterly rounds per annum. The decree fixed an initial annual cap of 400 MW, of which 267 MW is reserved for roof installations and 133 MW for ground-mounted systems. For 2009 and 2010, additional volumes of 100 MW and 60 MW, respectively, are reserved for ground-mounted systems. A decision about a new compensation structure is not expected before 2012. With the annual market expansion capped for the next three years and feed-in-tariffs significantly reduced under the revised Spanish Royal Decree, demand for photovoltaic products in Spain is expected to decline significantly. In the United States, California has been the State where the majority of solar installations have taken place during the past five years. Starting January 1, 2007, the California Solar Initiative (CSI) has established a goal of installing 3000MW of solar generation capacity by 2016 with a State budget of $2.2 billion over 10 years. The incentive level available to a given project is determined by the currently available incentive in each utility territory for each customer class. The CSI was designed so that the incentive level decreases over ten steps, after which it goes to $0, as the total demand for solar energy grows. In October 2008, the United States Congress extended the 30% federal investment tax credit for both residential and commercial solar installations for eight years, through December 31, 2016. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was signed into law. In addition to adopting certain fiscal stimulus measures that could benefit on-grid solar electricity applications, this act creates a new program, through the Department of the Treasury, which provides grants equal to 30% of the cost of solar installations that are placed into service during 2009 and 2010 or that begin construction prior to December 31, 2010 and are placed into service by January 1, 2017. This grant is available in lieu of receiving the 30% federal investment tax credit. Other measures adopted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that could benefit on-grid solar electricity generation include the following: (1) a Department of Energy loan guarantee program for renewable energy projects, renewable energy manufacturing facilities and electric power transmission projects and (2) a 30% investment credit for assets used to manufacture technology for the production of renewable energy. Emerging subsidy programs, such as the programs in Italy, France, Greece, South Korea and Ontario, Canada, may require an extended period of time to attain effectiveness because the applicable permitting and grid connection processes associated with these programs can be lengthy and administratively burdensome. 11 Table of Contents In addition, if any of these statutes or regulations is found to be unconstitutional, or is reduced or discontinued for other reasons, future sales of our solar modules in these countries could be significantly restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example, the predecessor to the German EEG was challenged in Germany on constitutional grounds and in the European Court of Justice as impermissible state aid. Although the German Federal High Court of Justice dismissed these constitutional concerns and the European Court of Justice held that the purchase requirement at minimum feed-in tariffs did not constitute impermissible state aid, new proceedings challenging the German EEG or comparable minimum price regulations in other countries in which we intend to operate may be initiated. Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from fossil fuels or other renewable energy sources could also lobby for a change in the relevant legislation in their markets to protect their revenue streams. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar PV products, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar modules. In addition to the government subsidies, economic incentives, and other support described above, the market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of solar PV products and investment in the research and development of PV technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for solar PV systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our end-users of using solar PV systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by photovoltaic systems competes primarily with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require solar PV systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity. An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic modules. Many potential end-users of our products depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a PV system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the financing necessary to purchase and install a PV system on favorable terms, or at all and thus lower demand for our solar modules. Due to the overall economic outlook, our end-users may change their decision or change the timing of their decision to purchase and install a PV system. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our potential end-users install PV systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a PV system, or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of project debt financing or tax equity investments could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing and thus lower demand for solar modules. 12 Table of Contents We are a development company, have not generated any revenue from operations and currently have no commercial products. We have not generated any revenue from operations and currently have no commercial products. Commercializing our products depends on a number of factors, including the following: • successfully scaling up and implementing our first commercial-scale CIGS sputter deposition tool; • completing the build-out of our initial production line; and • completing, refining and managing our supply chain and distribution channel. The completion of these tasks as necessary to commence commercialization will require significant additional funding. In addition, our technology uses our proprietary deposition process, and there may be technical barriers to the development of our products and processes. Development of tools and our manufacturing processes may not succeed or may be significantly delayed. Our products will be produced through a manufacturing process that we have not yet constructed or tested on a commercial scale. If we fail to successfully develop our thin film manufacturing process or incur significant delays in development, we will be unable to commercialize our products. This would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products, license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize or cease operations. Any of these factors could harm our business and financial condition. Our products have never been sold on a commercial basis, and we do not know whether they will be accepted by the market. Our products, if developed, may not achieve market acceptance. The development of a successful market for our proposed products and our ability to sell our products at a lower cost per watt than our competition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • our failure to produce solar PV modules that compete favorably against other solar modules on the basis of price, quality, performance and warranted lifetime; • competition from conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind energy; • our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with distributors, system integrators and other resellers, as well as strategic partners; • the failure of system integrators to build projects suited for the type of solar PV modules we intend to produce; • our products may experience problems with product quality or performance; and • our ability to achieve solar PV module certification requirements. The failure of our proposed products to gain market acceptance would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have no experience manufacturing CIGS solar PV products on a commercial scale. To date, we have focused primarily on research, development and small-scale manufacturing. As a company, we have no experience manufacturing any product on a commercial scale. In addition, all our pilot production has been limited to CIGS on foil, while our initial commercial production line will manufacture CIGS-on-glass modules. We are internally developing the necessary sputtering capabilities and purchasing third-party manufacturing equipment for this step. Failure to develop or procure manufacturing capabilities and scale up our proprietary deposition tool would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We may not reach profitability if PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar PV modules does not develop or develops slower than we anticipate. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar PV modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If our CIGS solar PV products prove unsuitable for widespread adoption or demand for our CIGS solar PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient revenue from operations to reach profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of solar PV technology and demand for our CIGS solar PV products, including the following: • performance and reliability of solar modules and thin film technology compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar PV industry; • success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated PV and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of oil and other fossil fuel; • fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules, which tend to decrease in slower economic environments, periods of rising interest rates, or a tightening of the supply of capital; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. Furthermore, many solar PV cell and module manufacturers are growing and the market could reach a point where supply exceeds demand. As a result, we may be unable to sell our products at attractive prices, or for a profit. We will rely on third-party suppliers for most of our manufacturing equipment. We will rely on third-party suppliers for most of our manufacturing equipment. The failure of our suppliers to supply manufacturing equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our commercialization and expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs. Further, our orders with certain of our suppliers may represent a very small portion of their total business. As a result, they may not give priority to our business, leading to potential delays in or cancellation of our orders. If any single-source supplier were to fail to supply our needs on a timely basis or cease providing us key components, we would be required to locate and contract with substitute suppliers. We may have difficulty identifying a substitute supplier in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed. If our manufacturing equipment, some of which will be customized and sole sourced, fails or our equipment suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our contractual requirements. Some of our manufacturing equipment will be customized to our production lines based on designs or specifications that we provide the equipment manufacturers, which then undertake specialized processes to manufacture the custom equipment. As a result, the equipment will not be readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or non-functional. If any piece of equipment fails, we would not be able to manufacture our products. 14 Table of Contents The failure to achieve target yields, product qualities or target costs of our CIGS solar PV products could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may not be able to achieve our desired manufacturing yields, product qualities and cost targets for our CIGS solar PV products, which could prevent us from becoming profitable. If we cannot achieve our targeted production yields and unit costs or if we experience difficulties in our manufacturing process, such as capacity constraints, quality control problems or other disruptions, we may not be able to manufacture our products at acceptable costs, which would eliminate our ability effectively to enter the market. If we cannot reduce our costs through economies of scale, improvements in manufacturing processes and engineering design, or technology maturation, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely harmed. In addition, we will need to ensure our solar PV module products will receive certain industry certifications. Failure to receive these certifications will harm our financial condition and limit our ability to market and sell our product. If we experience significant delays, cost overruns and technical difficulties in establishing commercial manufacturing capacity in California, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely harmed. If we are unable to complete the installation of equipment in our California manufacturing facility and build-out our initial production line, we will not be able to execute our commercialization plans and we may never achieve profitability. The build-out of our manufacturing facility and construction of our initial manufacturing line is subject to significant risks, including risks of delay, equipment problems, cost overruns and other start-up and operating difficulties. If we experience any of these or similar difficulties, we may be unable to complete our manufacturing line and our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely harmed. We depend on one customer, Blitzstrom GmbH, for a substantial percentage of our anticipated future revenue. We anticipate that a substantial percentage of our future revenue will be derived under a contract with one customer, Blitzstrom GmbH, or Blitzstrom. We will be vulnerable to a substantial decline in anticipated revenue if we lose Blitzstrom as a customer for any reason or if Blitzstrom were to reduce, delay or cancel its orders for any reason. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Any loss of business with Blitzstrom will be particularly damaging unless we are able to diversify our customer base and substantially expand sales to other customers. We will need to expand our manufacturing capacity beyond our proposed 25MW line in order to achieve industry competitive targets and to achieve profitability. Even if we are successful in commencing commercial shipments from our initial proposed 25MW production line, our current plan contemplates the expansion of our capacity to 100MW in order to commercialize at sufficient scale to achieve industry competitive cost per watt targets and profitability. The build out of this capacity will require substantial additional capital. A wide variety of factors relating to our company and external conditions could adversely affect our ability to secure funding to expand our manufacturing capacity and the terms of any funding that we secure. Particularly given the current market conditions, we cannot provide assurance that such financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. The failure to manage our anticipated growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The commercialization of our technology would place a significant strain on our managerial, financial and personnel resources. To reach our goals, we must successfully recruit, train, and manage new employees; develop our manufacturing capabilities; integrate new management and employees into our overall operations; and establish improved financial and accounting systems, controls and reporting systems. We will be competing with 15 Table of Contents other solar, semiconductor and display manufacturers for individuals with this expertise. If we fail to manage the expansion of our business effectively, it could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our management team has limited experience working together and its failure to work together effectively could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our executive officers and key employees have worked together for a limited period of time. If our management team cannot successfully work together or fails to develop a thorough understanding of our business on a timely basis, it could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, we intend to transition from a development company to a revenue generating company by building a manufacturing line and commercializing our product. This is a departure from our previous direction of working on flexible substrates. Our future success depends on our management team’s ability to establish a manufacturing line and commercialize our product. If we cannot do so, we will be unable to expand our business, decrease our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, satisfy our contractual obligations or reach profitability. If we lose key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain necessary talent, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products under development. We are highly dependent on Dr. Stephan DeLuca, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ratson Morad, our President and Chief Operating Officer and Mr. Robert Weiss, our Chief Technology Officer. Dr. DeLuca has over 20 years of experience in the semiconductor and environmental industry. Mr. Morad has over 20 years of experience in the semi-conductor and photovoltaic technology industries. Mr. Weiss has over 25 years of experience in thin film technology development and manufacturing. In the case of the loss of any of these key executives, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement with comparable knowledge or experience. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. Competition for such skilled personnel is intense, and the loss of services of a number of key individuals, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skill sets, could materially harm our business and results of operations. These issues would be magnified if any of our key personnel went to work for competitors. In addition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate these employees or hire qualified personnel to replace them. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors and other third parties could produce products based on our intellectual property, which would substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and license agreements, as well as employee and third party confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on these inventions. In addition, we cannot be certain that any of our pending patent applications will issue. The United States Patent and Trademark Office or other foreign patent and trademark offices may deny or significantly narrow claims made under our patent applications and, even if issued, these patents may be successfully challenged, designed around, or otherwise not provide us with commercial protection. In the future, we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. Regardless of the final outcome, any litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights or trademarks could be highly unpredictable and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed or are invalid or unenforceable and could award attorneys’ fees to the other party. 16 Table of Contents We may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from selling our product offerings, require us to obtain licenses from third parties to develop non-infringing alternatives and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. The solar PV industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents that could result in frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We are aware of numerous patents issued and patents pending to third parties that may relate to current and future generations of solar energy. The owners of these patents may assert that the manufacture, use, import, or sale of any product we develop infringes one or more claims of their patents. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect our business. Third parties could also assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to any of our future product offerings. Whether or not such claims are valid, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages and our inability to manufacture, market or sell any of our product offerings that are found to infringe. Even if we were to prevail in any such action, the litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business. If a court determined, or if we independently discovered, that our product offerings violated third-party proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we would be able to re-engineer our product offerings to avoid those rights or obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prohibited from selling products that are found to infringe upon the rights of others. Even if obtaining a license were feasible, it may be costly and time-consuming. A court could also enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our CIGS solar PV products or other future products, if any, or could enter orders mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Further, a court could order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest, and could in addition treble the compensatory damages and award attorneys’ fees. These damages could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The PV industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and our success will depend on our ability to develop and market a lower cost, higher performance product. The target markets for the products we are developing are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of CIGS solar PV products and technologies. Our competition consists of major international energy and chemical companies, such as Q-Cells, specialized electronics firms, such as Sharp Corporation, and other thin film PV manufacturers, such as First Solar, Inc. Many of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have substantially greater financial, development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. There are competitors with thin film products, including those based on CIGS technology, that have already entered commercial production. If a commercial equipment manufacturer were to develop a sputtering tool that was competitive with our proprietary sputtering tool, it could offer this tool to our competitors which would harm our competitive position. In addition, there are a variety of competing technologies currently in the market and under development, any one of which could achieve manufacturing costs per watt lower than our manufacturing technology. Failure to get to market with the most cost-competitive product before our competitors could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect results. Our facilities in Newark and Santa Clara, California are located near active earthquake zones. We currently do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan. In the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought, flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we could experience a significant business interruption. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages 17 Table of Contents of water, electric power and natural gas. Any such future shortages or natural disaster, such as a fire or an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could significantly harm our business and financial condition. The insurance we maintain against fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local and international level. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational health and safety. Compliance with current or future environmental and safety laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities, impair our research, development or production efforts, or require us to incur significant costs and capital expenditures. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims, investigation or remediation costs or other costs. Violations of environmental laws or regulations could occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks associated with our anticipated international business. We expect to establish, and to expand over time, international commercial operations and activities. Such international business operations will be subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including the following: • changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; • the imposition of tariffs; • economic or political instability in foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures; • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown; • the imposition of restrictive trade policies; • the existence of inconsistent laws or regulations; • the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings; • fluctuations in foreign currency and exchange rates; and • compliance with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our international business in the future. 18 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio may become impaired by further deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 consisted of U.S. Treasury instruments. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor, manage and limit our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments, such as structured investment vehicles, sub-prime mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations, may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. As of December 31, 2008, we had no direct holdings in these categories of investments and our indirect exposure to these financial instruments through our holdings in money market mutual funds was immaterial. As of December 31, 2008, we had no impairment charge associated with our short-term investment portfolio relating to such adverse financial market conditions. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain unimpaired. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third-party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive stockholders of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. Our common stock could be subject to extreme volatility. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The trading volume of our common stock each day is relatively low. Because of this limited liquidity, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares. Moreover, this means that sales or purchases of relatively small blocks of our common stock can have a significant impact on the price at which our common stock is traded. The trading price of our common stock has, from time to time, fluctuated widely and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. The trading price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including events described in the Risk Factors set forth in this Annual Report, as well as our operating results, financial condition, public announcements by us, general conditions in the solar cell industry, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Our stockholders may be diluted, and the prices of our securities may decrease, by the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants or by future issuances of securities. We may issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. Furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock or the exercise of stock options or warrants would dilute existing investors and could adversely affect the price of our securities. 