Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below because they could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Also, you should be aware that the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations and financial results. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related footnotes. In order to continue operations, we require immediate and substantial additional capital beyond our current cash on hand. In February 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Socius CG II, Ltd. (the “Investor” or “Socius”). Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we have the right over a term of two years, subject to certain conditions, to demand through separate tranche notices that the Investor purchase up to a total of $5.0 million of Series B preferred stock. Though the proceeds available from the Socius transaction will provide for our immediate cash needs, in order to continue operations, including development and commercialization efforts, we will require immediate and substantial additional capital. To date, we have been unable to raise significant additional capital. Although we continue to seek strategic investors or partners, in light of our current cash position, we implemented a significant reduction in our workforce and may in the near term be forced to cease operations. An inability to raise additional funding in the very near term may cause us to file a voluntary petition for reorganization under the United States Bankruptcy Code, liquidate assets, and/or pursue other such actions that could adversely affect future operations. 10 Table of Contents Our independent auditor’s report expresses doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise additional capital. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm relating to our financial statements as of December 31, 2011 and for the year then ended, stated that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to take advantage of raising capital through securities offerings, debt financing, or partnerships. Management is focusing on raising capital through any one or more of these options. Such opinion from our outside auditors may make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise additional capital. If we are unable to obtain such financing we may not be able to continue our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price and significantly impair our prospects. There can be no assurance that any of management’s plans will be successfully implemented. We have incurred net losses since our inception and anticipate continued net losses as we execute our commercialization plan. Since our inception, we have incurred net losses, including net losses of $3.4 million and $28.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and have incurred negative cash flows from operations. As a result of ongoing losses, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $153.5 million as of December 31, 2011. We expect to continue to incur significant losses as we enter commercialization and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We expect that our expenditures will increase to the extent we continue to develop strategic partnerships to commercialize our product. As we do not expect to become profitable until after we expand capacity, if ever, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations solely from cash generated from operations. If, for any reason, we are unable to make required payments under our obligations, one or more of our creditors may take action to collect their debts. If we continue to incur substantial losses and are unable to secure additional financing, we could be forced to discontinue or further curtail our business operations; sell assets at unfavorable prices; refinance existing debt obligations on terms unfavorable to us; or merge, consolidate or combine with a company with greater financial resources in a transaction that may be unfavorable to us. Current and future litigation against us may be costly and time consuming to defend, and the outcome of current litigation could affect our ability to operate our business. We are sometimes subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the course of our business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding pending litigation. An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may continue to cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Solar manufacturers have installed production capacity that significantly exceeded global demand in 2011. We believe this structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity significantly exceeds current global demand) will continue for the foreseeable future, and we expect that it will continue to put pressure on pricing. Additionally, in 2011, industry average sales prices per watt (“ASPs”) declined significantly, as competitors reduced ASPs to sell-through inventories in Europe and elsewhere. If our competitors reduce module pricing to levels near or below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, or if demand for PV modules does not grow sufficiently to justify the current production supply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for our solar modules, and adversely impact our operating results. Federal, state, and local governmental bodies in many countries have provided subsidies in the form of FiT, rebates, tax incentives, and other incentives to end-users, distributors, systems integrators, and manufacturers of PV products. Many of these jurisdictions, including the majority of U.S. states and numerous European Union countries, have adopted renewable 11 Table of Contents portfolio standards in which the government requires jurisdictions or regulated utilities to supply a portion of their total electricity from specified sources of renewable energy, such as solar, wind, and hydroelectric power. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, require renewal by the applicable authority, or may be amended. To the extent these government incentives are reduced earlier than previously expected, or free-field or conversion land applications are disadvantaged, such changes could reduce demand for our solar modules or the prices at which we may be able to sell our modules. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar PV products, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar modules. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future. These regulations and policies could deter end-user purchases of photovoltaic products and investment in the research and development of photovoltaic technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for photovoltaic systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. If these interconnection standby fees were applicable to PV systems, it is likely that they would increase the cost to our end-users of using PV systems which could make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, electricity generated by PV systems mostly competes with expensive peak hour electricity, rather than the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate for all times of the day, would require PV systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity from other sources. We anticipate that our solar modules and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar modules may result in significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar modules. An increase in interest rates or lending rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a PV system and could reduce the demand for our solar modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for photovoltaic modules. Many potential end-users of our products depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install a PV system. As a result, an increase in interest rates or lending rates could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the financing necessary to purchase and install a PV system on favorable terms, or at all and thus lower demand for our solar modules. Due to the overall economic outlook, our end-users may change their decision or change the timing of their decision to purchase and install a PV system. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our potential end-users install PV systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates and/or lending rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a PV system, or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PV systems, and, in each case, could cause these end-users to seek alternative investments. A reduction in the supply of project debt financing or tax equity investments could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing and thus lower demand for solar modules. We are a development stage company, have not generated any revenue from operations and currently have no commercial products. We have not generated any revenue from operations and currently have no commercial products. Commercializing our products depends on a number of factors, including successfully securing manufacturing and strategic partners to produce our CIGS-on-glass modules. The completion of these tasks as necessary to commence commercialization will require significant additional funding. There may be technical barriers to the development of our products and processes. Our products will be produced with certain manufacturing processes that have not yet been constructed or tested on a commercial scale. If we fail to successfully develop sourcing relationships, we will be unable to commercialize our products. If we fail to enter into a partnership to commercialize our products, we may incur significant delays in generating revenue. This would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products, license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize, or cease operations. Any of these factors could harm our business and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our products have never been sold on a commercial basis, and we do not know whether they will be accepted by the market. Our products, if developed, may not achieve market acceptance. The development of a successful market for our proposed products and our ability to sell our products at a lower cost per watt than our competition may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • our failure to produce solar PV modules that compete favorably against other solar modules on the basis of price, quality, performance and warranted lifetime; • competition from conventional energy sources and alternative distributed generation technologies, such as wind energy; • our failure to develop and maintain successful relationships with distributors, system integrators and other resellers, as well as strategic partners; • the failure of system integrators to build projects suited for the type of solar PV modules we intend to produce; • our products may experience problems with product quality or performance; and • our ability to achieve solar PV module certification requirements. The failure of our proposed products to gain market acceptance would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have no experience manufacturing or sourcing CIGS solar PV products on a commercial scale. To date, we have focused primarily on research, development and small-scale manufacturing. As a company, we have no experience manufacturing or sourcing any product on a commercial scale. In addition, all our pilot production has been limited to CIGS on foil, while our initial product sourcing arrangements will be for CIGS-on-glass modules. We will rely on third-party suppliers for production of our CIGS-on-glass modules. The failure of our suppliers to supply product in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our commercialization and expansion plans and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our manufacturing costs. Further, our orders with certain of our suppliers may represent a very small portion of their total business. As a result, they may not give priority to our business, leading to potential delays in or cancellation of our orders. If any single-source supplier were to fail to supply our needs on a timely basis, we would be required to locate and contract with substitute suppliers. We may have difficulty identifying a substitute supplier in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed. We may not reach profitability if PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar PV modules does not develop or develops slower than we anticipate. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which solar PV modules will be widely adopted is uncertain. If our CIGS solar PV products prove unsuitable for widespread adoption or demand for our CIGS solar PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient revenue from operations to reach profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules in our targeted markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of solar PV technology and demand for our CIGS solar PV products, including the following: • performance and reliability of solar modules and thin film technology compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • cost-effectiveness of solar modules compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar PV industry; • success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated PV and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the price of oil and other fossil fuel; 13 Table of Contents • fluctuations in capital expenditures by end-users of solar modules, which tend to decrease in slower economic environments, periods of rising interest rates, or a tightening of the supply of capital; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. If we do not reach profitability if PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar PV modules does not develop or develops slower than we anticipate, our financial condition and business could be materially and adversely affected. The failure to achieve target yields, product qualities or target costs of our CIGS solar PV products could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may not be able to achieve our desired manufacturing yields, product qualities and cost targets for our CIGS solar PV products, which could prevent us from becoming profitable. If we cannot achieve our targeted production yields and unit costs or if we experience difficulties in our manufacturing process, such as capacity constraints, quality control problems or other disruptions, we may not be able to manufacture our products at acceptable costs, which would eliminate our ability to effectively enter the market. If we cannot reduce our costs through economies of scale, improvements in manufacturing processes and engineering design, or technology maturation, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely harmed. In addition, we will need to ensure our solar PV module products will receive certain industry certifications. Failure to receive these certifications will harm our financial condition and limit our ability to market and sell our product. The failure to manage our anticipated growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The commercialization of our technology would place a significant strain on our managerial, financial and personnel resources. Because of our recent financial situation, we have had to significantly reduce our workforce. To reach our goals, we must successfully recruit, train, and manage new employees; develop our manufacturing capabilities; integrate new management and employees into our overall operations; and establish improved financial and accounting systems, controls and reporting systems. We will be competing with other solar, semiconductor and display manufacturers for individuals with this expertise. If we fail to manage the expansion of our business effectively, it could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we lose key personnel, or are unable to attract and retain necessary talent, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products under development. We are highly dependent on Mr. Robert Weiss, our Chief Technology Officer. Mr. Weiss has over 25 years of experience in thin film technology development and manufacturing. If we were to lose this key executive, we may be unable to find a suitable replacement with comparable knowledge or experience. In addition, our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. Competition for such skilled personnel is intense, and the loss of services of a number of key individuals, or our inability to hire new personnel with the requisite skill sets, could materially harm our business and results of operations. These issues would be magnified if any of our key personnel went to work for competitors. In addition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate these employees or hire qualified personnel to replace them. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors and other third parties could produce products based on our intellectual property, which would substantially impair our ability to compete. Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and license agreements, as well as employee and third party confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be certain that we were the first creator of inventions covered by pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications on these inventions. In addition, we cannot be certain that any of our pending patent applications will issue. The United States Patent and Trademark Office or other foreign patent and trademark offices may deny or significantly narrow claims made under our patent applications and, even if issued, these patents may be successfully challenged, designed around, or otherwise not provide us with commercial protection. In the future, we may need to assert claims of infringement against third parties to protect our intellectual property. Regardless of the final outcome, any litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in patents, copyrights or trademarks could be highly unpredictable and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In the event of an adverse judgment, a court could hold that some or all of our asserted intellectual property rights are not infringed or are invalid or unenforceable and could award attorneys’ fees to the other party. 14 Table of Contents We may become subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from selling our product offerings, require us to obtain licenses from third parties to develop non-infringing alternatives and subject us to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. The solar PV industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents that could result in frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We are aware of numerous patents issued and patents pending to third parties that may relate to current and future generations of solar energy. The owners of these patents may assert that the manufacture, use, import, or sale of any product we develop infringes one or more claims of their patents. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect our business. Third parties could also assert infringement or misappropriation claims against us with respect to any of our future product offerings. Whether or not such claims are valid, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs, substantial damages and our inability to manufacture, market or sell any of our product offerings that are found to infringe. Even if we were to prevail in any such action, the litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business. If a court determined, or if we independently discovered, that our product offerings violated third-party proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we would be able to re-engineer our product offerings to avoid those rights or obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. As a result, we could be prohibited from selling products that are found to infringe upon the rights of others. Even if obtaining a license were feasible, it may be costly and time-consuming. A court could also enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our CIGS solar PV products or other future products, if any, or could enter orders mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. Further, a court could order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest, and could in addition treble the compensatory damages and award attorneys’ fees. These damages could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The PV industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and our success will depend on our ability to develop and market a lower cost, higher performance product. The target markets for the products we are developing are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of CIGS solar PV products and technologies. Our competition consists of major international energy and chemical companies, such as Q-Cells, specialized electronics firms, such as Sharp Corporation, and other thin film PV manufacturers, such as First Solar, Inc. Many of our competitors are more established, benefit from greater market recognition and have substantially greater financial, development, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. There are competitors with thin film products, including those based on CIGS technology, that have already entered commercial production. If a commercial equipment manufacturer were to develop a sputtering tool that was competitive with our proprietary sputtering tool, it could offer this tool to our competitors which would harm our competitive position. In addition, there are a variety of competing technologies currently in the market and under development, any one of which could achieve manufacturing costs per watt lower than our manufacturing technology. Failure to get to market with the most cost-competitive product before our competitors could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect results. Our facilities in Union City, California are located near active earthquake zones. We currently do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan. In the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, drought, flood, or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we could experience a significant business interruption. In addition, California from time to time has experienced shortages of water, electric power and natural gas. Any such future shortages or natural disaster, such as a fire or an earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could significantly harm our business and financial condition. The insurance we maintain against fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local and international level. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites and occupational health and safety. Compliance with current or future environmental and safety laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities, impair our research, development or production efforts, or require us to incur significant costs and capital 15 Table of Contents expenditures. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, third party property damage or personal injury claims, investigation or remediation costs or other costs. Violations of environmental laws or regulations could occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks associated with our anticipated international business. We expect to establish, and to expand over time, international commercial operations and activities. Such international business operations will be subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including the following: • changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; • the imposition of tariffs; • economic or political instability in foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures; • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown; • the imposition of restrictive trade policies; • the existence of inconsistent laws or regulations; • the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings; • fluctuations in foreign currency and exchange rates; and • compliance with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our international business in the future. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third-party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our Board of Directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive stockholders of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents Our common stock could be subject to extreme volatility. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The trading volume of our common stock each day is relatively low. Because of this limited liquidity, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares. Moreover, this means that sales or purchases of relatively small blocks of our common stock can have a significant impact on the price at which our common stock is traded. The trading price of our common stock has, from time to time, fluctuated widely and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. The trading price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including events described in the Risk Factors set forth in this Annual Report, as well as our operating results, financial condition, public announcements by us, general conditions in the solar industry, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders may be diluted, and the prices of our securities may decrease, upon the conversion of outstanding notes, by the exercise of outstanding warrants or by future issuances of securities. We may issue additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. We have outstanding convertible notes with an aggregate principal balance of $4,930,000, convertible at a weighted average price of $0.23 per share. Furthermore, substantially all shares of common stock for which our outstanding stock options or warrants are exercisable are, once they have been purchased, eligible for immediate sale in the public market. The issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock, restricted stock units, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock, or the conversion of notes or the exercise of stock options or warrants may dilute existing investors and could adversely affect the price of our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 