Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Although we have grouped risk factors by category, the categories are not mutually exclusive. Risks described under one category may also apply to another category, and you should carefully read the entire risk factors section, not just any one category of risk factors. Risks Related to Our Industry, Business and Operations Challenges exist in implementing revisions to our business model. Since the beginning of fiscal 2009, we have taken several measures to adjust our business in response to economic conditions. Most significantly, we refined our service offerings and added fee-for-service offerings 19 Table of Contents such as portfolio management and asset servicing. During fiscal 2010, we completed the development of our Monogram platform, including an enhanced application interface, an expanded credit decisioning model and additional reporting capabilities. We continue to incorporate refinements to our Monogram platform. During fiscal 2011, we began originating education loans under our Monogram-based loan program agreements with two lenders and began offering outsourced tuition planning, tuition billing and payment technology services for educational institutions through TMS. On June 30, 2011, we launched two Monogram-based loan programs through our subsidiary Union Federal and began accepting applications under these programs on July 1, 2011. Successful sales of our service offerings, particularly our Monogram platform and TMS services, will be critical to stemming the losses of our Education Financing segment and growing and diversifying our revenues and client base in the future. We have limited experience with our Monogram platform, which is based on a new, proprietary origination risk score model and does not contemplate a third-party guaranty. We are uncertain of the extent to which the market will accept our Monogram platform, particularly in the current economic environment where there has been reluctance by many lenders to focus on education lending opportunities. Moreover, we are uncertain of the extent to which borrowers will choose Monogram-based loans offered by our clients, which depends, in part, on competitive factors such as brand and pricing. It is too early to determine the total application volume for our first full peak season, the extent to which application volume will ultimately result in booked loans or the overall characteristics of the booked loan portfolio. If we are unsuccessful this peak season in originating Monogram-based loans, we may encounter more difficulty in the future in signing new clients. Commercial banks have historically served as the initial funding sources for the education loans we facilitate and have been our principal clients. Since the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we have not facilitated take-out securitization transactions to support the long-term funding of education loans, and commercial banks are facing liquidity and credit challenges from other sources, in particular mortgage, auto loan and credit card lending losses. In addition, the synergies that previously existed between federal education loan marketing and education loan marketing have been eliminated by legislation that eliminated FFELP. As a result, many lenders have re-evaluated their business strategies related to education lending. In light of legislative changes, general economic conditions, capital markets disruptions and the overall credit performance of consumer-related loans, the education loan business may generally be less attractive to commercial banks than in the past. Some of our former clients have exited the education loan market completely. To the extent that commercial banks exit the education loan market, the number of our prospective clients diminishes. One of our primary challenges is to convince national and regional lenders that they can address the market opportunity in a manner that meets their desired risk control and return objectives. A related challenge is to successfully finance education loans generated through our Monogram platform through capital market transactions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in either the short term or the long term in meeting these challenges. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected if we do not achieve widespread market acceptance of loan programs based on our Monogram platform. During fiscal 2010, we entered into loan program agreements with two lender clients for Monogram-based loan programs. We entered into only one additional loan program agreement during fiscal 2011, and the counterparty to that agreement was FMD’s subsidiary Union Federal. The process of negotiating loan program agreements can be lengthy and complicated. Both the timing and success of contractual negotiations is unpredictable and partially outside of our control, and we cannot assure you that we will successfully identify potential clients or ultimately reach acceptable terms with any particular party with which we begin negotiations. Deployment of our Monogram platform, and loan volume under our clients’ Monogram-based programs, has been limited, and we will need to gain widespread market acceptance of our Monogram platform among lenders, and our clients’ Monogram-based programs among borrowers, in order to improve our long-term financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If we do not succeed in doing so, we may need to re-evaluate our business plans and operations. The UFSB Private Student Loan Program has generated a significant percentage of the loan volumes that we have processed through September 8, 2011. This loan program is subject to regulatory approvals and conditions, 20 Table of Contents as well as regulatory capital requirements. In particular, Union Federal’s business plan includes a limit on the amount of education loans to be held on its balance sheet, and we would need to obtain regulatory approval prior to any material change to Union Federal’s business plan. As a result, we cannot assure you that Union Federal will be able to serve as a meaningful funding lender in the future for Monogram-based loan programs. This is particularly the case because we would need prior regulatory approval for any interim or permanent financing of education loan portfolios held by Union Federal, including future securitization transactions. We have provided capital commitments in connection with loan programs for our initial three lenders and may enter into similar arrangements in connection with future loan programs based on our Monogram platform. As a result, we have capital at risk in connection with lenders’ loan programs. We may lose the capital we have provided and our financial results could be adversely affected. Historically, the loan programs that we facilitated included a third-party guaranty, pursuant to which the guarantor agreed to reimburse lenders for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted education loans. Our Monogram platform does not include a third-party guaranty. In connection with our initial three lenders’ Monogram-based loan programs, we have provided capital commitments to fund participation interest accounts, which we refer to as participation accounts, or loss reserve accounts to serve as a first-loss reserve for defaulted program loans. We have limited amounts of cash available to offer to prospective clients, and there is a risk that lenders will not enter into loan program agreements with us unless we offer credit enhancement commitments. Should additional lenders require credit enhancement or loss reserve account funding from us as a condition to entering into a loan program agreement, our growth may be constrained by the level of capital available to us. We have made initial deposits toward our capital commitments and agreed to provide periodic supplemental deposits, up to specified limits, during the terms of our loan program agreements based on the credit mix and volume of disbursed program loans and adjustments to default projections for program loans. To the extent that outstanding loan volume decreases as a result of repayments, or if actual loan volumes or default experience is less than our funded amounts, we would be eligible to receive periodic releases of funds. The timing and amount of release are uncertain and vary among the lenders, and, in the case of Union Federal, may be subject to regulatory approval. During fiscal 2011, we funded capital commitments in the amount of $8.5 million in support of our first two Monogram-based loan programs. As of September 8, 2011, we have funded $1.1 million in support of our Monogram-based loan programs for Union Federal, which were launched on June 30, 2011. We could lose some or all of the amounts that we have deposited, or will deposit in the future, in the participation accounts or loss reserve accounts, depending on the performance of the portfolio of program loans. Such losses would erode our liquidity position and could damage business prospects for our Monogram platform. Our Monogram platform is based on proprietary scoring models and risk mitigation and pricing strategies that we have only recently developed. We have limited experience with the actual performance of loan portfolios generated by lenders based on our Monogram platform, and we may need to adjust marketing, pricing or other strategies from time to time based on the distribution of loan volume among credit tiers or competitive considerations. We must closely monitor the characteristics and performance of each lender’s loan portfolio in order to suggest adjustments to the lenders’ programs and tailor our default prevention and recovery strategies. We have limited experience with the infrastructure that we have built for such monitoring, which requires extensive operational and data integration among the loan servicer, multiple default prevention and recovery agencies, and us. To the extent that our infrastructure is inadequate or we are otherwise unsuccessful in identifying portfolio performance characteristics and trends, or to the extent that lenders are unwilling to adjust their loan programs, our risk of losing amounts deposited in the participation accounts or loss reserve accounts may increase. We may offer additional prospective clients similar credit enhancement or loss reserve arrangements. We expect that the amount of any such credit enhancement or loss reserve arrangement offered to a particular lender would be determined based on the particular terms of the lender’s loan program, including the anticipated size of the lender’s program and the underwriting guidelines of the program, as well as the particular terms of our business relationship with the lender. 21 Table of Contents We will need to facilitate substantial loan volume in order to return to profitability. We designed our Monogram platform, in part, to reduce our dependence on the securitization market in order to generate revenue. Although we expect to generate ongoing monthly revenue through the maturity of the program loans, we will need to facilitate loan volumes substantially in excess of those that we have originated to date, and substantially in excess of those contemplated by our three initial lenders’ Monogram-based loan programs, in order for our Education Financing segment to return to profitability. We need to attract additional lender clients, or otherwise obtain additional sources of interim or permanent financing, particularly in light of regulatory conditions and approvals relating to the UFSB Private Student Loan Program. As a result of legislative changes that significantly reduced the profit margins of traditional non-governmental providers of federal loans and eliminated FFELP as of July 2010, as well as the capital markets disruptions and declining credit performance of consumer-related loans, including education loans, many lenders have re-evaluated their business strategies related to education lending and exited the marketplace altogether. Demand for our services may not increase unless additional lenders re-enter the marketplace, which could depend in part on capital markets conditions and improved market conditions for other consumer financing segments. In addition, because the revenues that we expect to generate for Monogram-based loan programs will depend in part on the size, credit mix and actual performance of our lender clients’ loan portfolios, it is difficult for us to forecast the level or timing of our revenues or income with respect to our Monogram platform generally or a specific lender’s Monogram-based loan program. The outsourcing services market for education financing is competitive and if we are not able to compete effectively, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. We offer our clients and prospective clients, national and regional financial institutions and educational institutions, services in structuring and supporting their education loan programs. The outsourcing services market in which we operate remains competitive with a number of active participants, some of which have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical or other competitive resources than we or our clients have, including funding capacity. As a result, our competitors or potential competitors may be better able to overcome capital markets dislocations, adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences, compete for skilled professionals, build upon efficiencies based on a larger volume of loan transactions, fund internal growth and compete for market share, generally, than we are. In particular, competitors with larger customer bases, greater name or brand recognition, or more established customer relationships than those of our clients have an advantage in attracting loan applicants and making education loans on a recurring, or “serialized,” basis. This disadvantage for us is particularly acute now because our clients’ Monogram-based loan programs were only launched in fiscal 2011. Based on the range of services that we offer, we believe that Sallie Mae is our principal competitor. Sallie Mae has announced that it intends to concentrate on growth of its education loan volumes, particularly following the elimination of FFELP. Our business could be adversely affected if Sallie Mae’s program to market education loans continues to grow, or if Sallie Mae seeks to market more aggressively to third parties the full range of services that we offer. Other education loan competitors include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo & Company and Discover Financial Services. In addition, Sallie Mae, FACTS Management and Higher One Payments, Inc. compete directly with TMS. We may face competition from loan originators, including our clients or former clients, if they choose to develop an internal capability to provide any of the services that we currently offer. For example, a loan originator that has developed, or decides to develop, a portfolio management or capital markets function may not choose to engage us for our services. Historically, lenders in the education loan market have focused their lending activities on federal loans because of the relative size of the federal loan market and because the federal government guarantees repayment of those loans, thereby significantly limiting the lenders’ credit risk. Following the elimination of FFELP, lenders are more focused on private education loans and may be less reluctant than in the past to develop an internal capacity to conduct the services that we provide, which could result in a decline in the potential demand for our services. 22 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with new or existing competitors. If we are not able to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The growth of our business could be adversely affected by changes in government education loan programs or expansions in the population of students eligible for loans under government education loan programs. We focus our business on the market for education loans, and the majority of our business is concentrated in products for post-secondary education. The availability and terms of loans that the government originates or guarantees affects the demand for education loans because students and their families often rely on education loans to bridge a gap between available funds, including family savings, scholarships, grants and federal and state loans, and the costs of post-secondary education. The federal government currently places both annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of federal loans that any student can receive and determines the criteria for student eligibility. These guidelines are generally adjusted in connection with funding authorizations from the U.S. Congress for programs under the Higher Education Act of 1965. Recent federal legislation expands federal grant and loan assistance, which could weaken the demand for education loans. In addition, the elimination of FFELP could result in increased competition in the market for education loans, which could adversely affect the volume of education loans and future capital markets transactions, if any, that we facilitate and impede the growth of our business. On the other hand, the reinstatement of FFELP, or similar federal or state programs which make available additional funds for education loans, could decrease the demand for private education loans. In May 2008, the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 was signed into law containing provisions which might adversely impact the demand for education loans and outsourcing services provided by us, availability and flow of funds for education loans, and our liquidity position. Among other things, the Act: • Permits a parent borrower under the federal Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students, or PLUS, loan program to defer repayment of a PLUS loan until six months after the student ceases to carry at least one-half the normal full-time academic workload; • Extends eligibility for a PLUS loan to an applicant who, during the period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2008, has not been delinquent for more than 180 days on mortgage loan payments or medical bill payments nor more than 89 days delinquent on the repayment of any other debt, in any case, during such period; and • Increases the loan limits for unsubsidized Stafford loans for undergraduate students. In August 2008, the Higher Education Opportunity Act was signed into law, which added: • Significant restrictions on the marketing of private education loans; and • Significant compliance burdens to education loan lenders by adding new TILA disclosures, procedures and rescission rights, as well as accompanying civil penalties. Access to alternative means of financing the costs of education may reduce demand for education loans. The demand for education loans could weaken if student borrowers use other vehicles to bridge the gap between available funds and costs of post-secondary education. These vehicles include, among others: • Home equity loans or other borrowings available to families to finance their education costs; • Pre-paid tuition plans, which allow students to pay tuition at today’s rates to cover tuition costs in the future; • Section 529 plans, which include both prepaid tuition plans and college savings plans that allow a family to save funds on a tax-advantaged basis; • Education IRAs, now known as Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, under which a holder can make annual contributions for education savings; • Government education loan programs, generally; and • Direct loans from colleges and universities. 23 Table of Contents If demand for education loans weakens, we would experience reduced demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Continuation of the current economic conditions could adversely affect the education loan industry. Higher unemployment rates and the unsteady financial sector have adversely affected many consumers and borrowers throughout the country. Current borrowers may experience more trouble in repaying credit obligations, which could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and forbearance, or otherwise negatively affect loan portfolio performance and the estimated value of our service revenue receivables. Forbearance programs may have the effect of delaying default emergence, and alternative payment plans may reduce the utilization of basic forbearance. In addition, some consumers may find that higher education is an unnecessary investment during turbulent economic times and defer enrollment in educational institutions until the economy improves or turn to less costly forms of secondary education, thus decreasing education loan application and funding volumes. Finally, many lending institutions have been reluctant to lend and have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, and several clients and potential clients have exited the education loan business and may or may not seek our services as the economy improves. If the adverse economic environment continues, our financial condition may deteriorate for any one of the foregoing reasons. If our clients do not actively or successfully market and fund education loans, our business will be adversely affected. We have in the past relied, and will continue to rely in part, on our clients to market and fund education loans to borrowers. If our clients do not devote sufficient time, emphasis or resources to marketing their Monogram-based loan offerings or are not successful in these efforts, then we may not reach the full potential of our capacity for facilitated loan volume and our business will be adversely affected. This risk is particularly acute for clients which have other education loan offerings. In addition, our clients’ Monogram-based loan programs, and related marketing efforts, will not necessarily extend nationwide and, in fact, may focus on a limited geographic footprint. In addition, if education loans were or are marketed by our clients in a manner that is unfair or deceptive, or if the marketing, origination or servicing violated or violates any applicable law, federal or state unfair and deceptive practices acts could impose liability or create defenses to the enforceability of the loan. Investigations by state Attorneys General, the U.S. Congress or others could have a negative impact on lenders’ desire to market education loans. The Higher Education Opportunity Act creates significant additional restrictions on the marketing of education loans. If we fail to manage our cost reductions effectively, our business could be disrupted and our financial results could be adversely affected. During fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we significantly reduced headcount, including departures of members of our senior management. Our cost reduction initiatives have placed and will continue to place a burden on our management, systems and resources, generally increasing our dependence on key persons and reducing functional back-ups. We must retain, train, supervise and manage our remaining employees effectively during this period of change in our business, and our ability to retain our employees may become more difficult as we face an increasingly competitive landscape with respect to talented employees as the economy begins to re-emerge from the financial crisis. Based on facilitated loan volumes, we may outsource some borrower service functions in an effort to reduce costs, take advantage of technologies and effectively manage the seasonality associated with education loan volume. We rely on our vendors to provide high levels of service and support. Our reliance on external vendors subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely service and could result in problems with service or support that we would not experience if we performed the service functions in-house. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: • Expand our capabilities or systems effectively; 24 Table of Contents • Successfully develop new products or services; • Allocate our human resources optimally; • Identify, hire or retain qualified employees or vendors; or • Incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. We are dependent upon the retention and motivation of certain key employees and the loss of any such employees could adversely affect our business. In addition, our future performance will also depend upon our ability to attract skilled, new employees. If we are unable to manage our cost reductions, or if we lose key employees or are unable to attract new employees, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected. If competitors acquire or develop an education loan database or advanced loan information processing systems, our business could be adversely affected. We own a database of historical information on education loan performance that we use to help us enhance our proprietary origination risk score model, determine the terms of portfolio funding transactions and establish the changes in fair value of the additional structural advisory fee, asset servicing fee and residual receivables that we recognize as revenue. We also have developed a proprietary loan information processing system to enhance our application processing and loan origination capabilities. We believe that our education loan database and loan information processing system provide us with a competitive advantage in offering our services. A third party could create or acquire databases and systems such as ours, and TERI possesses certain historical information related to loans formerly guaranteed by TERI. As lenders and other organizations in the education loan market originate or service loans, they compile over time information for their own education loan performance database. Our competitors and potential competitors may have originated or serviced a greater volume of education loans than we have over the past three fiscal years, which may have provided them with comparatively greater borrower or loan data, particularly during the most recent economic cycle. If a third party creates or acquires an education loan database or develops a loan information processing system, our competitive positioning, ability to attract new clients and business could be adversely affected. In November 2010, TERI filed with the Bankruptcy Court a Motion for Interpretation of Order, effectively requesting the Bankruptcy Court to rule that certain contractual restrictions on TERI’s rights have lapsed with respect to a loan database that we provided in 2008. We refer to this issue as the Database Dispute. In general, the contractual restrictions limited TERI to using or disclosing that loan database in connection with education loan guaranty programs offered and guaranteed by TERI. In December 2010, following the confirmation and effectiveness of the Modified Plan of Reorganization, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order with respect to the Database Dispute, which we refer to as the Database Order, in response to TERI’s motion. The Database Order stated that an earlier order issued by the Bankruptcy Court in June 2008 was not intended to extend the contractual restrictions applicable to TERI beyond two years following the termination by TERI of our 2001 database sale and supplementation agreement. TERI rejected that agreement effective as of May 31, 2008. We do not agree with the Database Order and are contesting it. We continue to believe that the Bankruptcy Court did not have jurisdiction to issue the Database Order and that TERI does not have rights to sell, license or transfer the database that we provided in 2008. In December 2010, we filed in Bankruptcy Court a notice of appeal of the Database Order and an election to have the appeal heard in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The parties briefed the appeal in March 2011, and a hearing was held on the matter in June 2011. If our appeal is unsuccessful, or if we are not otherwise successful in preventing TERI from selling, licensing or transferring the subset of our database that we provided in 2008, the competitive advantage of our loan database could diminish. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and processes, the value of our services and technology could be adversely affected. We rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our proprietary information and processes. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with third parties and with most of our employees to 25 Table of Contents maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information. These methods may neither effectively prevent use or disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information nor provide meaningful protection for our confidential or proprietary information if there is unauthorized use or disclosure. Although we sought in the context of the TERI reorganization to limit TERI’s rights with respect to a historical loan database that we provided in 2008, the Bankruptcy Court issued the Database Order in December 2010. If our pending appeal of the Database Order in federal district court is unsuccessful, or if we are not otherwise successful in preventing TERI from selling, licensing or transferring that database, we may not be able to protect the subset of historical data that we provided to TERI in 2008. We own no material patents. Accordingly, our technology, including our loan information processing systems, is not covered by patents that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our market. Monitoring unauthorized use of the systems and processes that we have developed is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected. Our business processes are becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, and we could lose clients and market share if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to process loan applications in an automated manner with high-quality service standards. The volume of loan originations that we are able to process is based, in large part, on the systems and processes we have implemented and developed. The loan origination process is becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to process loans over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide initial decisions instantly. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. In addition, the industry in which TMS competes has undergone rapid technological change over the past several years. We have made, and need to continue to make in the near-term, investments in TMS’ technology platform in order to enable TMS to provide services to its clients, and compete, more effectively. If competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are better than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, those that we offer or use may become obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, if we fail to execute our lender clients’ origination requirements or properly administer our clients’ credit agreement templates or required disclosures, or if TMS fails to properly administer its tuition payment plans or other services, we could be subject to breach of contract claims and related damages. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation and ability to obtain and retain clients. We may be required to expend significant funds to develop or acquire new technologies. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, we could lose clients and market share. We also could lose market share if our competitors develop more cost effective technologies than those we offer or develop. Our business could be adversely affected if PHEAA fails to provide adequate, proper or timely services or if our relationship with PHEAA terminates. As of June 30, 2011, PHEAA serviced a substantial majority of education loans held by the securitization trusts that we administer and served as the sole loan servicer for loan programs based on our Monogram platform. Our arrangements with PHEAA allow us to avoid the overhead investment in servicing operations, but require us to rely on PHEAA to adequately service the education loans, including collecting payments, responding to borrower inquiries, effectively implementing servicing guidelines applicable to loans and communicating with borrowers whose loans have become delinquent. Reliance on PHEAA and other third parties to perform education loan servicing or collections subjects us to risks associated with inadequate, improper or untimely services. In the case of PHEAA, these risks include the failure to properly administer servicing guidelines, including forbearance programs, and failure to provide notice of developments in 26 Table of Contents prepayments, delinquencies and defaults, and usage rates for forbearance programs, including alternative payment plans. A substantial increase in these rates could adversely affect our ability to access profitably the securitization markets for our clients’ loans and the value of our additional structural advisory fee, asset servicing fee and residual receivables. In the case of third party collection agencies, these risks include compliance with federal and state laws and regulations relating to interactions with debtors. If our relationship with PHEAA terminates, we would either need to expand our operations or develop a relationship with another loan servicer, which could be time consuming and costly. In such event, our business could be adversely affected. An interruption in or breach of our information systems, or those of a third party on which we rely, may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our systems and operations, including those of TMS, are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users and natural disasters. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan processing or servicing. A failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in an interruption of TMS’ tuition payment operations and an obligation to notify clients in a number of states that require such notification, with possible civil liability resulting from such failure, interruption or breach. Although we maintain and periodically test a business continuity and disaster recovery plan, the majority of our infrastructure and employees are concentrated in the Boston and Providence metropolitan areas. An interruption in services for any reason could adversely affect our ability to activate our contingency plan if we are unable to communicate among locations or employees. We cannot assure you that systems failures, interruptions or breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that we or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or communication systems interruptions may not be adequate, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach could significantly impair the reputation of our brand, diminish the attractiveness of our services and harm our business. If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties imposed by regulators, civil actions for damages and negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, state and federal legislative proposals, if enacted, may impose additional requirements on us to safeguard confidential customer information, which may result in increased compliance costs. Data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislation, legislative proposals and regulatory rule-making to address data privacy and security. Consequently, we may be subject to rapidly changing and increasingly extensive requirements intended to protect the applicant and borrower information that we process in connection with education loans. Implementation of systems and procedures to address these requirements has increased our compliance costs, and these costs may increase further as new requirements emerge. If we were to experience a data security breach, or if we or the securitization trusts that we administer were to otherwise improperly disclose confidential customer or consumer information, such breach or other disclosure could generate negative publicity about us and could adversely affect our relationships with our clients, including the lenders and educational institutions with which we do business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, such pending legislative proposals and regulations, if adopted, likely would result in substantial penalties for unauthorized disclosure of confidential consumer information. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in regulatory sanctions imposed on our client lenders and loss of business for us. 27 Table of Contents We may be unable to integrate our operations successfully and realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of TMS. Our acquisition of TMS for an acquisition price of $47.0 million in cash was a significant transaction for us. We have made several assumptions regarding cost and revenue synergies in connection with the acquisition, many of which are dependent upon how successful we are in integrating operations of TMS. The difficulties of integrating TMS’ operations include, among other things: • Retaining customers; • Consolidating corporate and administrative functions; • Coordinating sales and marketing functions; • Persuading employees that the First Marblehead and TMS business cultures are compatible, maintaining morale and retaining key employees; • Training our respective sales forces with regard to each other’s product offerings; and • Integrating TMS’ accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of each company’s business and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the acquisition and the integration of TMS’ operations could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Risks Related to Our Financial Reporting and Liquidity We were required to consolidate certain securitization trusts in our financial results as of July 1, 2010, which resulted in significant changes to the presentation of our financial statements. The presentation of our consolidated financial statements beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2011 differs significantly from the presentations included in prior periodic reports. Historically, each of the securitization trusts we facilitated met the criteria to be a qualified special purpose entity, or QSPE, as defined by Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 860-40, Transfers and Servicing—Transfers to Qualifying Special Purpose Entities, or ASC 860-40. Accordingly, we did not consolidate these existing securitization trusts in our financial statements. Effective July 1, 2010 we adopted Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009-16, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860)—Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, or ASU 2009-16, and ASU 2009-17, Consolidation (Topic 810)—Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved With Variable Interest Entities, or ASU 2009-17, which eliminated the exemption from consolidation afforded to QSPEs and changed the criteria for determining the party considered to be a primary beneficiary. Effective July 1, 2010, we consolidated 14 securitization trusts that we facilitated and previously accounted for off-balance sheet, and we deconsolidated our indirect subsidiary UFSB-SPV. As a result of these changes, as of July 1, 2010, we recorded a net increase in total assets and total liabilities of approximately $7.90 billion and $8.78 billion, respectively, and a net decrease in total stockholders’ equity of approximately $880.1 million. We adjusted our opening retained earnings by $990.3 million for the net deficit of the consolidated securitization trusts, which was partially offset by an adjustment of $110.2 million to remove the deficit of UFSB-SPV and reverse certain deferred tax asset valuation allowances. In addition, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, our results of operations no longer reflect securitization-related trust updates or administrative fees received from the 14 consolidated securitization trusts. Instead, we recognize interest income associated with securitized assets, including education loans, in the same line item as interest income from non-securitized assets, as well as a provision for loan losses, and we recognize interest expense associated with debt issued by the securitization trusts to third-party investors on the same line item as other interest-bearing liabilities of FMD. We 28 Table of Contents continue to recognize trust updates from additional structural advisory fees and residual receivables, and administrative and other fees from other off-balance sheet VIEs that are not consolidated. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Consolidation,” included in Item 7 of this annual report for additional details regarding our adoption of ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17. In addition, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2011, our financial results reflect our adoption of new accounting policies, including policies for the determination of an allowance for loan losses and the related provision for loan losses, the recognition of interest income on delinquent and defaulted loans, and amortization of loan acquisition costs and origination fees. We have also adjusted, and may need to further adjust, elements of our information technology infrastructure in order to support our financial reporting following our adoption of ASU 2009-17. We have limited experience with our new estimates and infrastructure, and we may need to adjust them in the future based on our actual experience or new facts or circumstances. Moreover, the new accounting standards are highly complex, and our sale of the Trust Certificate generally creates additional interpretive complexities. We may be required to further change our financial statement presentation in the future based on new accounting standards or evolving interpretations or practices. Our consolidated financial results include VIEs that we do not own and it may be difficult for investors to understand and analyze our financial results without evaluating the results of our Education Financing segment. We do not own any of the residual interests in the 11 consolidated NCSLT Trusts. In addition, the NCSLT Trusts have been structured to provide recourse only to the assets of that particular securitization trust and not to the assets of FMD, its subsidiaries or any other securitization trust. We are nonetheless required to consolidate the NCSLT Trusts as a result of our additional structural advisory fee receivables from the NCSLT Trusts and services provided to the NCSLT Trusts by our Education Financing segment related to default prevention and collections management. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the NCSLT Trusts’ asset performance, including losses, must be allocated to us until the consolidated trusts are deconsolidated or trust liabilities are extinguished. As a result, our consolidated financial results include the losses generated by the NCSLT Trusts in our reported net loss and net loss per share. Although accounting standards require that the net losses or income of the NCSLT Trusts be included in our statements of operations, our rights to receive income generated by the NCSLT Trusts are limited to the collection of fees for services provided. Our consolidated balance sheet reflects in accumulated deficit, rather than as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, the deficit generated by the NCSLT Trusts, although we have no obligation to fund such deficit. As a result of this required financial statement presentation, investors will have to evaluate the results of our Education Financing segment to understand and analyze our operations, financial performance, financial condition and liquidity. ASU 2009-17 may result in increased volatility in our reported financial condition and results of operations. Under ASU 2009-17, the determination of whether to consolidate a VIE is based on whether the company is considered to be the primary beneficiary. Such determination is based on both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the entity. The nature of these determinations, made on an entity-by-entity basis, requires a high level of subjectivity and judgment. We are required to continuously reassess whether consolidation or deconsolidation of a VIE is appropriate, as opposed to the trigger-based assessment under previous guidance. As a result, determinations that we make from time to time will be susceptible to change. We continue to monitor our involvement with each unconsolidated VIE for which we perform services related to default prevention and portfolio management. We 29 Table of Contents have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary of any unconsolidated VIE due to the sole, unilateral rights of other parties to terminate us in our role as service provider, or due to a lack of obligation on our part to absorb benefits or losses of the VIE that would be significant to that VIE. A significant change to the pertinent rights of other parties or a significant change to the range of possible financial performance outcomes used in our assessment of the variability of cash flows due to us could cause us to change our determination of whether or not a VIE should be consolidated in future periods. Given the size of each of our VIEs, any decision to consolidate or deconsolidate a VIE could result in significant changes to our reported assets and liabilities and results of operations during the quarter in which the change occurs. Changes in our determinations to consolidate or deconsolidate a VIE may also lead to increased volatility in our financial results and make comparisons of results between time periods challenging. See Note 4, “Consolidation—Reassessment of Consolidation of VIEs,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional information. The accounting for these matters is new and complex, particularly in light of our sale of the Trust Certificate to an unrelated third party. In addition, there is little precedent with regard to the deconsolidation of VIEs. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary materially from those reflected in our financial statements. As compensation for our past securitization activities, we are entitled to receive additional structural advisory fees over time from securitization trusts that we facilitated, based on the amount of education loans outstanding in the trust over the life of the trust, as well as residual interests in certain trusts. As required under GAAP, we recognized the estimated fair value of additional structural advisory fee and residual receivables as revenue when the securitization trusts purchased the education loans because receipt of our fees was not contingent on any further service requirement by us. Quarterly, we update our estimate of the fair value of our service revenue receivables, and changes to the fair value, less cash distributions, if any, are recorded as revenue (trust updates) in the period in which the change is made. We also make estimates regarding the probability of default of education loans held by our consolidated securitization trusts through the allowance for loan losses. In relation to our Monogram platform, we estimate the fair value of deposits for participation accounts and record changes in the fair value in non-interest revenues. We have no further financial obligation with respect to our additional structural advisory fees or residuals in the securitization trusts we facilitated. However, our fees are subordinate to securities issued to investors in such securitizations, and the trusts may fail to generate any cash flow for us if the securitized assets do not generate enough cash flow to pay debt holders in full or only generate enough cash flow to pay the debt holders. Our projected cash flows from service revenue receivables from certain securitization trusts are expected to be eliminated entirely, and our projected cash flows from other securitization trusts could be delayed, impaired or eliminated if actual performance differs from our assumptions at June 30, 2011. As of June 30, 2011, we expected to receive additional structural advisory fees and residuals beginning five to 22 years after the date of a particular securitization transaction, consistent with our expectations at June 30, 2010. We are entitled to asset servicing fees for additional services that we are contractually obligated to perform relating to the Trust Certificate. We recognize the net present value of asset servicing fees as our services are performed. The receipt of the fees is contingent, however, on distributions from the Trusts available to the third-party owner of the Trust Certificate. Quarterly, we update our assumptions with respect to the amount and timing of receipt of these fees, and record the changes in our estimates as revenue (fee updates) in the period in which the change is made. Because there are no quoted market prices for our service revenue receivables and deposits for participation accounts, we use discounted cash flow modeling techniques and certain assumptions to estimate fair value. Our key assumptions to estimate fair value include, as applicable: discount rates, which we use to estimate the present fair value of our future cash flows; the annual rate and timing of education loan prepayments; the trend of interest rates over the life of the loan pool, including the forward LIBOR curve, which is a projection of future LIBOR rates over time; expected auction rates, if applicable; the expected annual rate and timing of education loan defaults, including the effects of various risk mitigation strategies, such as basic forbearance programs and 30 Table of Contents alternative payment plans; the expected amount and timing of recoveries of defaulted education loans; and the fees and expenses of the securitization trusts. Because our estimates rely on quantitative and qualitative factors, including macroeconomic indicators and our historical experience to predict default, recovery and prepayment rates, management’s ability to determine which factors should be more heavily weighted in our estimates, and to accurately incorporate those factors into our loan performance assumptions, are subjective and can have a material effect on valuations. Many of these key assumptions are also considered in our evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Specifically, in determining the projected defaults and recoveries of the education loan portfolio. If the actual performance of the education loan portfolios held by us, some or all of the securitization trusts, or our clients who hold Monogram-based loans were to vary appreciably from the adjusted assumptions we use, we may need to adjust our key assumptions further. Such an adjustment could materially affect our earnings in the period in which our assumptions change. In addition, our actual loan losses could be significantly greater than our allowance, and our actual service revenues or releases from participation accounts could be significantly less than reflected in our current financial statements. In particular, economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors affecting the key assumptions used in the cash flow model could cause or contribute to differences between actual performance of the portfolios and our other key assumptions. Our liquidity could be adversely affected if the sale of the Trust Certificate does not result in the tax consequences that we expect or if we are unable to successfully resolve the state tax matters pending before the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board. Effective March 31, 2009, we completed the sale of the Trust Certificate in a transaction intended to improve our financial condition and liquidity. The sale of the Trust Certificate generated a cash refund of income taxes previously paid of $189.3 million. The federal and state income tax consequences of the sale of the Trust Certificate, however, are complex and uncertain. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, has begun an audit of our tax returns for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, including a review of the tax treatment of the sale of the Trust Certificate, as well as the $45.1 million income tax refund that we received in October 2010. The IRS or a state taxing authority could challenge our tax position in connection with the transactions, notwithstanding our receipt of any income tax refund. If such a challenge were successful, in whole or in part, we may not keep all or a portion of any refund of income taxes previously paid, or we may not eliminate our income tax obligations relating to the residuals. In either case, our near-term and long-term financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. In addition, any investigation, audit or suit relating to the sale of the Trust Certificate, including any such proceeding brought by the IRS, could result in substantial costs. In addition, we are involved in several matters before the Massachusetts Appellate Tax Board, which we refer to as the ATB, relating to the Massachusetts tax treatment of GATE Holdings, Inc., a former subsidiary of FMD, which we refer to as GATE. We have taken the position in these proceedings that GATE is properly taxable as a financial institution and is entitled to apportion its income under applicable provisions of Massachusetts tax law. The Massachusetts Commissioner of Revenue, which we refer to as the Commissioner, has taken alternative positions: that GATE is properly taxable as a business corporation, or that GATE is taxable as a financial institution, but is not entitled to apportionment or is subject to 100% Massachusetts apportionment. In September 2007, we filed a petition with the ATB seeking a refund of state income taxes for our tax year ended June 30, 2004, all of which tax had previously been paid as if GATE were a business corporation. In December 2009, the Commissioner made additional assessments of tax, along with accrued interest, of approximately $11.9 million for GATE’s taxable years ended June 30, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and approximately $8.1 million for our taxable years ended June 30, 2005 and 2006. These amounts exclude additional monetary penalties that the Commissioner has also sought to impose. In March 2010, we filed petitions with the ATB contesting the additional assessments against GATE and us. The assessments against GATE are in the alternative to the assessments against us. In April 2011, the ATB conducted an evidentiary hearing on these matters and the parties filed their respective opening briefs in August 2011. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of the ATB’s decision on these matters, but an adverse outcome may have a material impact on our state income tax liability not only for the tax years at issue, but also for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2009, which could materially 31 Table of Contents adversely affect our liquidity position. For more information, see Note 18, “Commitments and Contingencies—Income Tax Matters,” and Note 23, “Income Taxes,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report. We have guaranteed the performance of Union Federal’s obligations under a loan purchase and sale agreement and assumed potential contingent liabilities of Union Federal under an indenture. We may incur substantial costs if we have to perform or assume obligations of Union Federal, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. In connection with Union Federal’s sale of an education loan portfolio in October 2009, FMD delivered a performance guaranty to the purchaser of the loan portfolio. If Union Federal were to default in the performance of any of its obligations or agreements under the loan purchase and sale agreement, including its indemnification or loan repurchase obligations, FMD would be required to perform such obligations. As a result, we may incur substantial costs pursuant to the performance guaranty if Union Federal is unable to perform its obligations under the loan purchase and sale agreement. In April 2010, FMD and certain of its subsidiaries entered into agreements relating to the restructuring of the education loan warehouse facility of UFSB-SPV, which we refer to as the Facility. In connection with the restructuring, the third-party conduit lender released any and all potential claims against Union Federal and UFSB-SPV pursuant to the indenture relating to the Facility based upon events arising prior to April 16, 2010, to the extent such claims exceed $20.0 million in the aggregate. Neither Union Federal nor UFSB-SPV would have any liability until the conduit lender’s aggregate losses exceed $3.5 million, at which point Union Federal and UFSB-SPV would only be liable for amounts above such amount up to the $20.0 million liability limit. Neither the liability limit nor the $3.5 million deductible would apply, however, in cases of fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence or third-party claims by or on behalf of borrowers against the conduit lender based on loan origination errors. In addition, the release is not deemed a waiver of rights previously reserved but not exercised by the conduit lender, except as specifically released pursuant to a settlement agreement. FMD assumed any remaining contingent liability of Union Federal and its affiliates, other than UFSB-SPV, under the Facility arising prior to April 16, 2010, subject to the liability limit discussed above. In addition, FMD assumed any contingent liability of Union Federal under the Facility arising prior to April 16, 2010 based on fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence, third-party claims by or on behalf of borrowers against the conduit lender based on loan origination errors or rights not otherwise released by the conduit lender. As a result, we may incur substantial costs in the event of a claim for damages related to the Facility, which could have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or financial condition. Changes in interest rates could affect the value of our additional structural advisory fee, asset servicing fee and residual receivables, as well as demand for education loans and our services. Education loans held by us and the securitization trusts facilitated by us typically carry floating interest rates tied to prevailing short-term interest rates. Higher interest rates would increase the cost of the loan to the borrower, which, in turn, could cause an increase in delinquency and default rates for outstanding education loans, as well as increased use of basic forbearance or alternative payment plans. Other factors, such as challenging economic times, including high unemployment rates, can also lead to an increase in delinquency and default rates or such use. In addition, higher interest rates, or the perception that interest rates could increase in the future, could cause an increase in full or partial prepayments. If the prepayment or default rates increase for the education loans held by us, the securitization trusts that we facilitated or our Monogram platform clients, we may experience a decline in the value of service revenue receivables and our participation accounts, as well as a decline in fees related to Monogram-based loan programs in the future, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock and could also prevent, or make more challenging, any future portfolio funding transactions. In addition, an increase in interest rates could reduce borrowing for education generally, which, in turn, could cause the overall demand for our services to decline. LIBOR is the underlying interest rate for most of the trusts’ assets and liabilities. Changes in LIBOR can have a significant effect on the cash flow generated by each trust. Changes in the forward LIBOR curve affect the 32 Table of Contents principal balance of education loans held by each trust, particularly as interest is capitalized during a loan deferment period, which affects the net interest margin that each trust generates. In addition, certain trusts have issued a tranche of ABS that bears a fixed interest rate. A decrease in the forward LIBOR curve may result in a reduced spread on the fixed interest-rate tranche, which, in turn, could decrease the estimated fair value of our service revenue receivables. A significant change to the forward LIBOR curve could also affect the estimated fair value of our additional structural advisory fee receivables, which for the majority of the trusts bear interest at the rate of LIBOR plus a spread to the extent such fees are accrued but unpaid by the trusts. If sufficient funds to finance our business are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back or otherwise alter our strategy. We have generated significant net losses since fiscal 2008, and we cannot predict at this time when or if our Education Financing segment will return to profitability. We may require additional funds for our products, operating expenses, including expenditures relating to TMS, capital commitments for Monogram-based loan programs, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs primarily through fees earned from education loan asset-backed securitizations. We have not accessed the securitization market since fiscal 2008, and the securitization market may not be accessible to us in the future and, if available, on terms that are acceptable to us. We have also satisfied our funding needs through equity financings. We cannot be certain that additional public or private financing would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Although we believe that our capital resources as of June 30, 2011, which include proceeds of tax refunds under audit, are sufficient to satisfy our operating needs for the succeeding twelve months, we cannot assure you that they will be sufficient, particularly in light of ongoing income tax audits. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our products, eliminate our ability to provide credit enhancement commitments to prospective clients relating to Monogram-based loan programs, curtail or delay plans for TMS, or further scale back our expenses. In addition, our short-term financing needs are subject to regulatory capital requirements related to Union Federal. See Note 25, “Union Federal Regulatory Matters,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional information. A significant portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of TMS is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to periodic impairment evaluations. An impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At June 30, 2011, we had $19.5 million of goodwill and $23.0 million of intangible assets related to our acquisition of TMS. As required by current accounting standards, we review intangible assets for impairment either annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The risk of impairment to goodwill is higher during the early years following an acquisition. This is because the fair values of these assets align very closely with what we paid to acquire the reporting units to which these assets are assigned. As a result, the difference between the carrying value of the reporting unit and its fair value (typically referred to as “headroom”) is smaller at the time of acquisition. Until this headroom grows over time, due to business growth or lower carrying value of the reporting unit, a relatively small decrease in reporting unit fair value can trigger impairment charges. When impairment charges are triggered, they tend to be material due to the size of the assets involved. Our financial and operational results are subject to seasonality. The financial and operational results of our Education Financing segment are subject to seasonal trends. For example, the volume of education loan applications typically increases with the approach of tuition payment dates. Historically, we have processed the greatest loan application volume during the summer months, as students and their families seek to borrow money in order to pay tuition costs for the fall semester or the entire academic year. This seasonality of education loan originations has historically impacted the timing and size of securitization transactions, the amount of processing fees that we earned in a particular quarter and the level of expenses incurred to process the higher origination activity. In addition, TMS’ financial and operational results 33 Table of Contents are also subject to seasonal trends, with plan enrollment activity and expenses generally increasing from March to July as TMS hires temporary staff to meet higher demand for enrollment in tuition payment plans for the succeeding school year. Risks Related to Asset-Backed Securitizations and Other Funding Sources We have historically recognized a significant portion of our revenues and substantially all of our income from structuring securitization transactions; our financial results and future growth may continue to be adversely affected if we are unable to structure securitizations or alternative financings. In the past, we did not charge separate fees for many of our services, but generally entered into agreements with clients giving us the exclusive right to securitize the education loans that they did not intend to hold. As a result, we have historically recognized a significant portion of our revenues and substantially all of our income from structuring securitization transactions. We have not completed a securitization since the first quarter of fiscal 2008, a significant contributing factor to our net losses for each subsequent quarter. Although our Monogram platform has been designed to generate recurring revenues with less dependence on the securitization market and third-party credit enhancement, we will need to facilitate loan volumes substantially in excess of those that we have originated to date, and substantially in excess of those contemplated by our three initial lenders’ Monogram-based loan programs, in order for our Education Financing segment to return to profitability. Accordingly, our future financial results and growth may continue to be affected by our inability to structure securitizations or alternative financing transactions involving education loans on terms acceptable to us. In particular, such transactions may enable us to generate fee revenues or access and recycle capital previously deployed as credit enhancement for interim financing facilities. If we are able to facilitate securitizations in the near-term, we expect the structure and economics of the transactions to be substantially different from our past transactions, including lower revenues and additional cash requirements on our part. If our inability to access the ABS market on acceptable terms continues, our revenues may continue to be adversely impacted, and we may continue to generate net losses, which would further erode our liquidity position. A number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our portfolio funding activities and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our business may depend on our ability to structure securitizations or other funding transactions for our clients’ loan portfolios. Several factors have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on both our ability to structure funding transactions and the revenue we may generate for providing our structural advisory and other services, including the following: • Persistent and prolonged disruption or volatility in the capital markets generally or in the education loan ABS sector specifically, which could continue to restrict or delay our access to the capital markets; • Our inability to structure and gain market acceptance for new products or services to meet new demands of ABS investors, rating agencies, or credit facility providers; • Continuing degradation of the credit quality or performance of the loan portfolios of the trusts we facilitated or further adverse modifications in rating agency assumptions, ratings or conclusions with respect to the securitization trusts that we have facilitated, which could reduce or eliminate investor demand for future securitizations that we facilitate, particularly for subordinate classes of ABS; • Our inability to generate sufficient loan volume through our Monogram platform and Monogram-based loan program agreements; • Material breach of our obligations to clients, including securitization trusts and former or current lender clients; 34 Table of Contents • The timing and size of education loan asset-backed securitizations that other parties facilitate, or the adverse performance of, or other problems with, such securitizations, which could impact pricing or demand for our future securitizations, if any; • Challenges to the enforceability of education loans based on violations of federal or state consumer protection or licensing laws and related regulations, or imposition of penalties or liabilities on assignees of education loans for violation of such laws and regulations; and • Changes to bankruptcy laws that change the current non-dischargeable status of education-related loans, which could materially adversely affect recovery rates on defaulted loans. Recent legislation will affect the terms of future securitization transactions. The SEC has proposed new rules governing ABS issuance that, due to the requirements for risk retention, may affect the desirability of issuing ABS as a funding strategy. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, grants federal banking regulators substantial discretion in developing specific risk retention requirements for all types of consumer credit products and requires the SEC to establish new data requirements for all issuers, including standards for data format, asset-level or loan-level data, the nature and extent of the compensation of the broker or originator, and the amount of risk retention required by loan securitizers. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, once adopted, will affect the terms of future securitization transactions, if any, that we facilitate and may result in greater risk retention and less flexibility for us in structuring such transactions. In structuring and facilitating securitizations of our clients’ loans, administering securitization trusts, providing portfolio management or as holders of rights to receive residual cash flows in non-NCSLT Trusts, we may incur liabilities to transaction parties. We facilitated and structured a number of different special purpose trusts that have been used in securitizations to finance education loans that our clients originated, including trusts that have issued auction rate notes. Under applicable state and federal securities laws, if investors incur losses as a result of purchasing ABS that those trusts have issued, we could be deemed responsible and could be liable to those investors for damages. If we failed to cause the trusts or other transaction parties to disclose adequately all material information regarding an investment in the ABS, if the trust made statements that were misleading in any material respect in information delivered to investors or if we breach any duties as the structuring advisor, administrator or special servicer of the securitization trusts, it is possible that we could be sued and ultimately held liable to a noteholder or other transaction party. This risk may increase as the performance of the trusts’ loan portfolios degrades, and rating agencies over the past several years have downgraded various ABS issued by the trusts we facilitated. The Modified Plan of Reorganization provides exculpation for certain of our actions as administrator of the trusts in connection with the TERI reorganization, but the exculpation may not cover all of our actions as administrator of the trusts during the TERI reorganization. Recent investigations by state Attorneys General, as well as private litigation, have focused on auction rate securities, including the marketing and trading of such securities. It is possible that we could become involved in such matters in the future. In addition, under various agreements entered into with underwriters or financial guaranty insurers of those ABS, as well as certain lenders, we are contractually bound to indemnify those persons if an investor is successful in seeking to recover any loss from those parties and the trusts are found to have made a materially misleading statement or to have omitted material information. If we are liable to an investor or other transaction party for a loss incurred in any of the securitizations that we have facilitated or structured and any insurance that we may have does not cover this liability or proves to be insufficient, our results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents We may determine to incur near-term losses based on longer-term strategic considerations. We may consider long-term strategic considerations more important than short-term economic gains when assessing business arrangements and opportunities, including financing arrangements for education loans. For example, we expect the structure and pricing terms in near-term future securitization transactions, if any, to be substantially different from our past transactions, including lower revenues and additional cash requirements on our part. We may nevertheless determine to participate in, or structure, future financing transactions based on longer-term strategic considerations. As a result, net cash flows over the life of a future securitization trust, particularly any trust that we may facilitate in the near-term as we re-enter the securitization market, could be negative as a result of transaction size, transaction expenses or financing costs. We serve as a special servicer to various trusts that we facilitated. In that role, we manage and coordinate third party collection agencies, including account placement and borrower contact and recovery strategies. We are reimbursed by the trusts for our expenses, including the fees and expenses of the third-party collection agencies, subject to pre-specified limits. We believe that our services as special servicer have had a positive effect on portfolio performance trends, which may facilitate our re-entry to the securitization market. Based on longer-term strategic considerations, we may determine to provide special services to the trusts even if our costs exceed the reimbursement limits specified in our special servicing agreements. Risks Related to the TERI Reorganization TERI’s rejection of its guaranty agreements in the context of the Modified Plan of Reorganization could result in litigation against us by former clients for breach of contractual obligations, which could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial results. Prior to the TERI reorganization, TERI had historically been the exclusive provider of borrower default guarantees for our clients’ education loans. Under the terms of our past purchase agreements with lender clients, we generally have an obligation to use our best efforts to facilitate the purchase of a client’s TERI-guaranteed loans during a specified loan purchase period. Under the Modified Plan of Reorganization, which became effective during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, TERI rejected the guaranty agreements. In general, the termination of the TERI guaranty agreements terminated our purchase obligations under the purchase agreements. We may be subject to claims, however, that we breached our contractual obligations under our past purchase agreements, which could adversely affect our business reputation. In addition, our financial results would be adversely affected if we were required to defend or pay damages in connection with any such claim. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters We are subject to, or will become subject to, new supervision and regulations which could increase our costs of compliance and alter our business practices. Various regulators have increased diligence and enforcement efforts and new laws and regulations have been passed or are under consideration in Congress as a result of turbulence in the financial services industry. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and the federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations. Consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The Dodd-Frank Act also restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS, which historically was the primary federal regulator for FMD and Union Federal, transferred its authority to the Federal Reserve and the OCC on July 21, 2011. On that date, the OCC, the primary federal regulator for national banks, became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts, including Union Federal, and the Federal Reserve became the primary regulator for all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including FMD. Although the OCC and Federal Reserve are directed to implement existing OTS regulations, orders, resolutions, determinations and agreements for thrifts and their holding companies under the HOLA, the transition of supervisory functions from the OTS to the OCC (with respect to Union Federal) and the Federal Reserve (with respect to FMD) could alter the supervisory approach for 36 Table of Contents Union Federal and FMD. This could, in turn, affect the operations of FMD and Union Federal. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies, but they are not effective for five years. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act changes the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws. Prior to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, OTS regulations provided that the HOLA, which authorized the creation of federal savings associations, and the OTS regulations that interpret the HOLA, preempted the entire field of state regulation in the critical areas of lending and deposit-taking, resulting in federal preemption of the bulk of state consumer protection laws in those areas. The Dodd-Frank Act, effective July 21, 2011, changed the legal standard for federal savings association preemption of state laws. As a result, state laws are now preempted only if those laws stand in conflict with federal laws. This “conflict” preemption standard is consistent with the standard for national bank preemption of state laws. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the CFPB as an independent agency within the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has been given broad powers, including the power to: • Supervise non-depository institutions, including those that offer or provide education loans; • Regulate consumer financial products, including education loans, and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes; • Promulgate rules pursuant to, as well as with respect to, unfair, deceptive or abusive practices; and • Take enforcement action against institutions under its supervision. The CFPB came into existence on July 21, 2011, and may institute regulatory measures that directly impact our business operations. However, the CFPB may not supervise non-depository institutions or take action under its unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices powers until a CFPB Bureau Director is confirmed. The FTC maintains parallel authority to enforce Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices against non-depository financial providers, such as FMLOS, FMER and TMS. The OCC maintains parallel authority to enforce Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act against federal savings associations, such as Union Federal. Despite the absence of a new director, the CFPB has significant rulemaking and enforcement powers and the potential reach of the CFPB’s broad new rulemaking powers and enforcement authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including FMD, is currently unknown. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a private education loan ombudsman within the CFPB, which would, among other things, receive, review and attempt to resolve informally complaints from education loan borrowers. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFPB and the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the FTC commissioners and the U.S. Attorney General, to submit a report, within two years of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, on a variety of matters relating to the private education lending market, including education loan lenders. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes several provisions that could affect our future portfolio funding transactions, if any, including potential risk retention requirements applicable to any entity that organizes and initiates an ABS transaction, new disclosure and reporting requirements for each tranche of ABS, including new loan-level data requirements, and new disclosure requirements relating to the representations, warranties and enforcement mechanisms available to ABS investors. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, including through increased operating and compliance costs. In addition, regulators and enforcement officials are taking increasingly expansive positions with respect to whether certain products or product terms may run afoul of state and federal unfair or deceptive acts and practices laws. Furthermore, as noted in part above, the Dodd-Frank Act potentially expands the ambit of such laws by prohibiting “abusive” lender actions. These and other regulatory changes could result in, among other things, increased compliance costs, more limited lending markets and alterations to our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. 37 Table of Contents We are subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and Union Federal is regulated extensively. We could incur additional costs in complying with regulations applicable to savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. As a result of our acquisition of Union Federal in November 2006, we became subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and our business is limited to activities that are financial or real-estate related. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS, which historically was the primary federal regulator for FMD and Union Federal, transferred its authority to the Federal Reserve and the OCC on July 21, 2011. On that date, the OCC, the primary federal regulator for national banks, became the primary federal regulator for federal thrifts, including Union Federal, and the Federal Reserve became the primary federal regulator for all savings and loan holding companies that were formerly regulated by the OTS, including FMD. The OCC and the Federal Reserve each have certain types of enforcement authority over us, including the ability in certain circumstances to review and approve changes in management and compensation arrangements, issue cease-and-desist orders, force divestiture of Union Federal and impose civil and monetary penalties for violations of federal banking laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Any such actions could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity or ability to execute our business plan. In addition, we could incur additional costs in complying with differing interpretations by these new regulators, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. Union Federal is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, as successor to the OTS, and the FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including activities and investments, lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capitalization, risk management policies and procedures, relationships with affiliated companies, efforts to combat money laundering, recordkeeping and conduct and qualifications of personnel. In particular, the failure to meet minimum capital requirements could initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial statements. We have in the past been required to make capital infusions to Union Federal, and regulatory authorities could require additional capital infusions or take other corrective measures in the future. We could incur additional costs in complying with regulations applicable to savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules depends largely on our establishment and maintenance of a system to ensure such compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Further reductions in staffing levels could make it difficult to retain experienced personnel to maintain adequate internal controls related to regulatory matters. If severe failures in internal controls occur, regulatory authorities could impose sanctions on Union Federal or us. We could in the future be subject to supervisory orders to cease and desist, civil monetary penalties or other actions due to claimed noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may become subject to additional state registration or licensing requirements. If we determine that we are subject to additional state registration or licensing requirements, our compliance costs could increase significantly and other adverse consequences may result. Many states have statutes and regulations that require the licensure of small loan lenders, loan brokers, credit services organizations, loan arrangers and collection agencies. Some of these statutes are drafted or interpreted to cover a broad scope of activities. Our subsidiary FMER has been approved for licenses in Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Texas. Our subsidiary TMS has submitted license applications or registrations and/or received licenses or registrations as a credit services organization and/or collection agency in approximately 15 states. Although we believe that our prior consultations with regulatory counsel and, in some cases state regulators, have identified all material licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements that could be applicable to us based on current laws and the manner in which we currently conduct business, as the integration of TMS continues, we may determine that we need to submit additional license applications in other states, and we may otherwise become subject to additional state licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements in the future. In particular, certain state licenses or registrations may be required if we change our operations, if regulators reconsider their prior guidance or if federal or state laws or regulations are changed. For 38 Table of Contents example, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal pre-emption of state licensing requirements for federal savings association operating subsidiaries, such as Union Federal’s operating subsidiary, FMLOS. Even if we are not physically present in a state, its regulators may take the position that registration or licensing is required because we provide services to borrowers located in the state by mail, telephone, the Internet or other remote means. Absent a change in federal law, either by judicial interpretation or legislation, including as discussed above, to the extent that our services are conducted through Union Federal, we believe it is less likely that state regulatory requirements affecting loan brokers, small loan lenders, credit services organizations, loan arrangers or collection agencies will be asserted. In addition, we may now be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. We will continue to review state registration and licensing requirements, and we intend to pursue registration or licensing in applicable jurisdictions where we are not currently registered or licensed if we elect to operate through an entity that does not enjoy federal pre-emption. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining additional state licenses or registrations in a timely manner, or at all. If we determine that additional state registrations or licenses are necessary, we may be required to delay or restructure our activities in a manner that will not subject us to such licensing or registration requirements. Compliance with state licensing requirements could involve additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to, among other things: • Curtailment of our ability to continue to conduct business in the relevant jurisdiction, pending a return to compliance or processing of registration or a license application; • Administrative enforcement actions; • Class action lawsuits; • The assertion of legal defenses delaying or otherwise affecting the enforcement of loans; and • Criminal as well as civil liability. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be exposed to liability for failures of third parties with which we do business to comply with the registration, licensing and other requirements that apply to them. Third parties with which we do, or have done, business, including federal and state chartered financial institutions and non-bank loan marketers are subject to registration, licensing and governmental regulations, including TILA and other consumer protection laws and regulations. For example, some of the third-party marketers with which we have done or may do business may be subject to state registration or licensing requirements and laws and regulations, including those relating to loan brokers, small loan lenders, credit services organizations, loan arrangers and collection agencies. As a result of the activities that we conduct or may conduct for our clients, it may be asserted that we have some responsibility for compliance by third parties with which we do business with the laws and regulations applicable to them, whether on contractual or other grounds. If it is determined that we have failed to comply with our obligations with respect to these third parties, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability. Even if we bear no legal liability for the actions of these third parties, the imposition of licensing and registration requirements on them, or any sanctions against them for conducting business without a license or registration, may reduce the volume of loans we process from them in the future. Failure to comply with consumer protection laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or litigation, including class actions, and have a material adverse effect on our business. The federal government and state governments regulate the financial institutions and other entities that originate loans in the education loan market. These regulations include bankruptcy, tax, usury, disclosure, credit reporting, identity theft, privacy, fraud and abuse and other laws to protect borrowers. Changes in consumer protection laws or related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, may expose us to litigation, 39 Table of Contents result in greater compliance costs, constrain the marketing of education loans, adversely affect the collection of balances due on the loan assets held by securitization trusts or otherwise adversely affect our business. We could incur substantial additional expense complying with these requirements and may be required to create new processes and information systems. Moreover, changes in the consumer protection laws and related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, could invalidate or call into question the legality of certain of our services and business practices. The risk of noncompliance with regulatory requirements by our lender clients and their marketing partners has been highlighted by state and federal investigations into education loan marketing practices, particularly the payment of marketing fees directly to schools in exchange for loan referrals. State and federal regulatory authorities have sought information from some of our former clients and us regarding the loan programs we coordinated, and it is possible that some marketing or underwriting practices associated with the programs we coordinated and assets we securitized will be challenged as a result of such investigations. In August 2007, we announced that, as part of the New York Attorney General’s ongoing investigation of several lending, educational and nonprofit institutions, we had received a subpoena for information regarding our role in the education loan industry. During fiscal 2008, we worked with the New York Attorney General’s office regarding the investigation, and we have not received any further requests for information since May 2008. The regulatory actions described above have also prompted state and federal legislation that will affect our operations. In August 2009, the Federal Reserve issued regulations to implement provisions of the Higher Education Opportunity Act. The regulations revised the number, timing, and content of disclosures required for education loans by TILA and the Federal Reserve’s implementing regulation for TILA, Regulation Z. Under the regulations, education loan creditors are now required to provide disclosures about loan terms and features on or with the loan application and are also required to disclose information about federal education loan programs that may offer less costly alternatives to education loans. Additional disclosures must be provided when the loan is approved and after loan acceptance but prior to loan disbursement. Compliance with the new regulations became mandatory in February 2010. In addition, in December 2009, the Federal Reserve and the FTC announced final rules to implement the risk-based pricing provisions of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003. The final rules generally require that lenders provide disclosures to all consumers or alternatively to certain consumers if credit is offered to them on less favorable terms than those offered by the lender to other consumers. Compliance with the disclosure requirements became mandatory as of January 1, 2011. Violations of the laws or regulations governing our operations, or the operations of our clients, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services or our exclusion from participating in education loan programs. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impair our business reputation and ability to operate our business. In addition, the loan assets held by securitization trusts that we have structured could be adversely impacted by violation of tax or consumer protection laws. In such event, the value of our residual interests, additional structural advisory fees or asset servicing fees could also be adversely impacted. In some cases, such violations may render the loan assets unenforceable. A recent Supreme Court decision, and recent legislative proposals, could affect the non-dischargeability of education loans in bankruptcy. If the legislative proposals are enacted, it could adversely affect the performance of the securitization trusts, the key assumptions we use to estimate the fair value of our service revenue receivables, and/or the competiveness of our Monogram platform. Under current law, education loans can be discharged in bankruptcy only upon a court finding of “undue hardship” if the borrower were required to continue to make loan payments. The bankruptcy court must hear evidence and make a finding of “undue hardship” in order to discharge the debtor’s education loans. In March 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a bankruptcy confirmation order which discharged a debtor’s education loans without a finding of “undue hardship” by the bankruptcy court. Specifically, the debtor’s proposed plan, which the bankruptcy court ultimately approved, included a discharge of the debtor’s education loans; however, the bankruptcy court never heard evidence or made a finding of “undue hardship.” As a result of the Supreme Court’s decision, it may be advisable for us, in performing collections management for the securitization trusts 40 Table of Contents and our clients, to review certain bankruptcy filings that we do not currently review to determine if plans include a discharge of education loans without the necessary adversary proceeding and a finding of “undue hardship.” Such additional review could increase our costs and the complexity of our operations. In April 2010 and again in May 2011, legislation was introduced in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives that would generally end the bankruptcy exemption from dischargeability for certain education loans. If enacted as initially proposed, both bills would apply retroactively to education loans already made, and would not require the borrower to make any payments before seeking discharge in bankruptcy. Although the April 2010 bill was not enacted in the last Congress, if the May 2011 bill is enacted in this Congress, such legislation could adversely affect the performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions we used, including recovery assumptions, to estimate the fair value of our service revenue receivables. In addition, the May 2011 bill, if enacted, may restrict the availability of capital to fund education loans and may increase loan pricing to borrowers to compensate for the additional risk of bankruptcy discharge, which could adversely affect the competitiveness of our Monogram platform and our ability to engage lenders to fund loans based on our Monogram platform. Recent legislative proposals could affect the prepayment of education loans in the Trust portfolios. If the legislative proposals are enacted, they could adversely affect the performance of the securitization trusts, and/or the key assumptions we use to estimate the fair value of our service revenue receivables. In the last Congress, legislation was introduced in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives that would have allowed education loan borrowers to “swap” their education loan debt for federal unsubsidized Stafford or graduate/professional PLUS debt to the extent that previous Stafford or PLUS loans, as applicable, to such borrowers had not exceeded the aggregate limits established by federal law for such loans. Education loans made between July 1, 1994 and July 1, 2010 would have been eligible for such a swap. Borrowers could not have been more than 90 days delinquent on their education loans in order to have qualified. Although these bills were not enacted in the last Congress, if similar bills are introduced and enacted in this Congress, borrowers with loans in the securitization trusts could exchange their education loans for federal Stafford, PLUS, and/or Direct Consolidation loans. Accordingly, any such bill could adversely affect the performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions that we have used to estimate the fair value of our service revenue receivables. Recent litigation has sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders; if litigation on similar theories were successful against us or any third-party marketer we work with, the education loans that we facilitate would be subject to individual state consumer protection laws. All of the lenders with which we work are federally-insured banks and credit unions. As a result, they are able to charge the interest rates, fees and other charges available to the most favored lender in their home state. In addition, our lender clients or prospective lender clients may be chartered by the federal government and enjoy pre-emption from enforcement of state consumer protection laws. In providing our education loan services to our lender clients, we do not act as a lender, guarantor or loan servicer, and the terms of the education loans that we facilitate are regulated in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the lenders. The association between marketers of high-interest “payday” loans, tax-return anticipation loans, or subprime credit cards, and online payment services, on the one hand, and banks, on the other hand, has come under recent scrutiny. Recent litigation asserts that loan marketers use lenders with a bank charter that authorizes the lender to charge the most favored interest rate available in the lender’s home state in order to evade usury and interest rate caps, and other consumer protection laws imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought, successfully in some instances, to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. Moreover, federal banking regulators and the FTC have undertaken enforcement actions challenging the activities of certain loan marketers and their bank partners, particularly in the context of subprime credit cards. We believe that our activities, and the activities of third parties whose marketing on behalf of lenders may be coordinated by us, are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. 41 Table of Contents Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the education loans we facilitate if we, or any third-party loan marketer engaged by us, were re-characterized as a lender, and the education loans (or the provisions governing interest rates, fees and other charges) could be unenforceable unless we or a third-party loan marketer had the requisite licenses or other authority to make such loans. In addition, we could be subject to claims by consumers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost to us. There have been no actions taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending; however, if such actions occurred, they could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in your shares of our common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • The success of our Monogram platform, our fee-for-service offerings and our tuition payment plan offerings; • Announcements by us, our competitors or our potential competitors of acquisitions, new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital markets activities; • Actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts, including as a result of the timing, size or structure of any portfolio funding transactions; • Difficulties we may encounter in structuring securitizations or alternative financings, including continued disruptions in the education loan ABS market or demand for securities offered by trusts that we facilitate, or the loss of opportunities to structure securitization transactions; • Any variance between the actual performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions that we have used to estimate the fair value of our service revenue receivables, including among others, discount, net default and prepayment rates; • General economic conditions and trends, including unemployment rates and economic pressure on consumer asset classes such as education loans; • Legislative initiatives affecting federal or private education loans, including initiatives relating to bankruptcy dischargeability and the federal budget and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act; • Changes in demand for our product and service offerings or in the education finance marketplace generally; • Negative publicity about the education loan market generally or us specifically; • Regulatory developments or sanctions directed at Union Federal or us; • Unfavorable outcomes in litigation or proceedings in which we are involved, including the ongoing IRS audit of our past tax returns; • Application of accounting policies and pronouncements, and their effects on our reported financial condition and results of operations, including future determinations under ASU 2009-17 to consolidate or deconsolidate VIEs; • Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market and volatility in the ABS market, from time to time; 42 Table of Contents • Significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services and process outsourcing companies; • Major catastrophic events; • Purchases or sales of large blocks of our common stock or other strategic investments involving us; • Dilution from raising capital through a stock issuance; or • Departures or long-term unavailability of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, who we believe has unique insights and experience at this point of change in our business and the education loan industry. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We have, in the past, been the target of securities litigation. Although we succeeded in having prior litigation dismissed without any compensation passing to plaintiffs or any of their attorneys, any future litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Insiders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, owned approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of June 30, 2011, excluding shares issuable upon vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding vested and unvested stock options and shares of preferred stock held by affiliates of GS Capital Partners, or GSCP, convertible into 8,846,733 additional shares of our common stock. Affiliates of GSCP have agreed not to convert shares of preferred stock if, after giving effect to any such conversion, they and their affiliates would own more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Approximately 5,189,069 additional shares of common stock could be issued to affiliates of GSCP upon conversion of shares of preferred stock before they and their affiliates would own more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, could substantially influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may deter third-parties from acquiring us. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors, including the following: • Only our Board of Directors, our Chairman of the Board or our President may call special meetings of our stockholders; • Our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; • We have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • Our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present, or by the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and • We impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. 43 Table of Contents These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 