Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, and we are likely to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage and developmental companies. Although we were incorporated in December 2000, we have only been in operation since May 2002. We have incurred net losses of $18,115,000 since our inception, including net losses of $6,421,000, $8,538,000 and $3,033,000 for the years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. We have not yet commercialized any products and cannot be sure that we will ever be able to do so, or that we may ever become profitable. We expect to expand our clinical trials significantly, which will result in increasing losses, and may continue to incur substantial losses even if we begin to generate revenues from the distribution and sale of phenoxodiol. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize phenoxodiol or license other viable drug candidates, our ability to sustain future operations will be significantly diminished. We are currently developing only one drug, phenoxodiol. We cannot guarantee that phenoxodiol will be successful. Although we have rights to potentially develop other related compounds discovered and developed by Novogen under the terms of our license option deed with Novogen, our rights under our license agreement with Novogen are limited to the commercialization of phenoxodiol as an anti-cancer agent and these rights specifically exclude phenoxodiol in a topical application. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize phenoxodiol or other viable drug candidates, we may be required to cease or reduce our operations. If we do not receive regulatory approval for marketing phenoxodiol or such approval is withdrawn, we will not be able to commercialize phenoxodiol. We need regulatory approval in order to commercialize phenoxodiol. We may never receive marketing approval or if we do receive marketing approval, it will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which phenoxodiol has been proven to be safe and effective. Phenoxodiol currently is in various Phase 1b/11a clinical trials with the intention of being developed as both a monotherapy and a chemo-sensitizing agent for use with first-line chemotherapies in the areas of hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma, early stage cancer of the cervix, vagina and vulva, late stage ovarian carcinoma and renal cancer. Phenoxodiol has been granted fast track status by the FDA for use in hormone refractory prostate cancer for patients with recurrent late stage ovarian cancer. Product approval, if granted, can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or upon the occurrence of adverse events following commercial introduction. In addition, our ability to market phenoxodiol in overseas countries is contingent upon receiving the required regulatory approvals in those countries. If we cannot commercialize phenoxodiol, we may be required to cease or reduce our operations. We cannot assure you that material delays, difficulties or adverse developments in the regulatory process will not be encountered in the future. If the data from our clinical trials does not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of phenoxodiol to the FDA’s satisfaction, we will not receive FDA approval to market phenoxodiol in the United States. 19 To obtain FDA approval for marketing, our pivotal trials must generate data demonstrating that phenoxodiol is safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought. The FDA’s grant of permission to proceed with clinical trials does not constitute a binding commitment that the FDA will consider the trial design adequate to support approval, or that the data generated during pivotal trials will meet the safety and effectiveness endpoints, or otherwise produce results that will lead the FDA to grant marketing approval. If the FDA concludes that the data from our clinical trials has failed to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of phenoxodiol for any indication, we will not receive FDA approval to market phenoxodiol for those indications in the United States. We may not complete our pivotal trials on schedule, or at all, or they may be conducted improperly, which may delay or preclude FDA marketing approval. The completion of our pivotal trials may be delayed or terminated for many reasons, including, but not limited to, if: • the FDA does not grant permission to proceed and places the trial on clinical hold; • subjects do not enroll in our pivotal trials at the rate we currently expect; • subjects experience an unacceptable rate or severity of adverse side effects; • third party clinical investigators do not perform our pivotal trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practice and regulatory requirements, or other third parties do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • inspections of our clinical trial sites by the FDA or Institutional Review Boards, (IRBs), find regulatory violations that require us to undertake corrective action, suspend or terminate one or more sites, or prohibit us from using some or all of the data in support of our marketing applications; • one or more IRB suspends or terminates the trial at an investigational site, precludes enrollment of additional subjects, or withdraws its approval of the trial; or • one or more of our clinical investigators withdraws from our trials or deviates from our approved protocol. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our pivotal trials, or if we are required to modify, suspend, terminate or repeat a pivotal trial. We may not be able to secure and maintain suitable research institutions to conduct our clinical trials. We rely on suitable research institutions, of which there are many, to conduct our clinical trials. While we have not previously experienced problems with third parties upon whom we rely for research or clinical trials, our reliance upon research institutions, including hospitals and cancer clinics, provides us with less control over the timing and cost of clinical trials and the ability to recruit patients than if we had conducted the trials on our own. Further, there is a greater likelihood that disputes may arise with these research institutions over the ownership of intellectual property discovered during the clinical trials. If we are unable to reach agreement with suitable research institutions on acceptable terms, or if any resulting agreement is terminated and we are unable to quickly replace the applicable research institution with another qualified institution on acceptable terms, the research could be delayed and we may be unable to complete development, or commercialize phenoxodiol, which will adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. 20 Any failure in our clinical trials could impair the commercial prospects for phenoxodiol. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. While we have not had any material delays in our clinical testing program if we experience delays in the testing or approval process or need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned our commercial prospects for phenoxodiol or any other drug candidates may be impaired and we may be required to cease or reduce our operations. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on a number of factors, many of which have uncertain outcomes. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on a number of factors including: • completing our clinical trial program and receiving marketing approval. Clinical testing is a prerequisite to the receipt of the regulatory approval necessary to commercialize phenoxodiol. We cannot control the outcome of our testing program or whether we receive regulatory approval. We will not be able to generate sales revenues until we receive marketing approval; • establishing strategic partnerships to market and sell phenoxodiol. Our negotiating position with potential strategic partners will be affected by the success of our clinical program. If we are unable to attract partners and negotiate favorable terms, we may have difficulty generating revenues from our commercialization of phenoxodiol; • maintaining a low cost operation and scalable supply of phenoxodiol capable of meeting the demands of the commercial market. We have contracted with Novogen for the supply of phenoxodiol and Novogen has fully complied with the terms of our manufacturing license and supply agreement. Under the terms of the manufacturing license and supply agreement, the supply of phenoxodiol is charged to us on a cost-plus basis. We do not have direct control over the manufacturing costs of phenoxodiol. We cannot control Novogen’s ability to expand its production capabilities to produce the large quantities that may be required by the commercial market. If our costs for the supply of phenoxodiol rise or if Novogen fails to supply sufficient quantities of phenoxodiol, our profitability could be adversely affected; and • our ability to license from Novogen rights to commercialize new cancer compounds. We may license from Novogen the rights to other cancer compounds under the terms of the license option deed. If development of phenoxodiol is unsuccessful or if we choose to expand to the development of additional compounds, our success may depend on controlling the costs of developing such new compounds and negotiating a favorable license agreement with Novogen. The availability of new compounds to commercialize and the cost to develop these compounds is outside of our direct control. We have no direct control over the costs of manufacturing phenoxodiol and increases in these costs would increase the costs of conducting clinical trials and could adversely affect future profitability if these costs increase significantly. We do not intend to manufacture phenoxodiol ourselves and we will be relying on third parties for our supplies of phenoxodiol both for clinical trials and for commercial quantities in the future. We have contracted with Novogen to manufacture and supply us with our requirements of phenoxodiol. The cost of manufacturing phenoxodiol is charged to us on a cost plus markup basis. We have no direct control over the costs of manufacturing phenoxodiol. If the costs of manufacturing phenoxodiol increase or if the cost of the materials used to make phenoxodiol increases these costs will be passed on to us by Novogen making the cost of conducting clinical trials more expensive. If, in the future, a third party other than Novogen manufactures and supplies us with phenoxodiol, we will not have 21 direct control over those manufacturing costs. Once we are able to commercialize phenoxodiol, increases in manufacturing costs could adversely affect our future profitability if we are unable to pass all of the increased costs along to our customers. Final approval by regulatory authorities of phenoxodiol for commercial use may be delayed, limited or prevented, any of which would adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. Any of the following factors may serve to delay, limit or prevent the final approval by regulatory authorities of phenoxodiol for commercial use: • phenoxodiol is in the early stages of clinical development and we will need to conduct significant clinical testing to prove safety and efficacy before applications for marketing can be filed with the FDA, or with the regulatory authorities of other countries, to approve phenoxodiol for final use; • data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • development and testing of product formulation, including identification of suitable excipients; • it may take us many years to complete the testing of phenoxodiol or any other drug candidates, and failure can occur at any stage of this process; • negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts; • there is relatively limited scientific understanding of the means by which cells respond to chemical signals that reach them through the bloodstream, which we refer to as multiple signal transduction regulation or MSTR, the class of drug compounds to which phenoxodiol belongs; and • the commercialization of phenoxodiol may be delayed if the FDA or another regulatory authority requires us to expand the size and/or scope of the clinical trials. While we have not encountered any material delays or adverse events from the factors described above to date, we cannot assure you that such delays or adverse events will not be encountered in the future. We may not be able to establish the strategic partnerships necessary to market and distribute phenoxodiol. A key part of our business plan is to establish relationships with strategic partners. We must successfully contract with third parties to package, market and distribute phenoxodiol. We have not yet established any strategic partnerships. Potential partners may not wish to enter into agreements with us due to Novogen’s current equity position as our majority stockholder or our contractual relationships with Novogen. Similarly, potential partners may be discouraged by our limited operating history. Additionally, our relative attractiveness to potential partners and consequently, our ability to negotiate acceptable terms in any partnership agreement will be affected by the results of our clinical program. For example, if phenoxodiol is shown to have high efficacy against a broad range of cancers we may generate greater interest from potential partners than if phenoxodiol was demonstrated to be less effective or applicable to a narrower range of cancers. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable licensing or other agreements for the future exploitation of phenoxodiol, including the continued clinical development, manufacture or marketing of phenoxodiol. If we are unable to successfully contract for these services, or if arrangements for these services are terminated, we may have to delay our commercialization program for phenoxodiol which will adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. 22 We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. This risk is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of human therapeutic products. We have product liability insurance coverage of up to approximately $14 million. Although we believe that this amount of insurance coverage is appropriate for our business at this time, it is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and the market for such insurance is becoming more restrictive. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities. If we are unable to sufficiently insure against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business development and commercialization efforts. We will need to raise additional funds to complete Phase III clinical trials and commercialize phenoxodiol, and the actual amount of funds we will need will be determined by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. While we believe that we have sufficient funds to complete our current clinical trial program, we will require additional funds to further the evaluation of phenoxodiol beyond the current objectives including the completion of any Phase III clinical trials for phenoxodiol, and to pursue the commercialization of phenoxodiol. The actual amount of funds that we will need will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. As a result, we may need additional funds sooner than we currently anticipate. These factors include: • the progress of research activities, the number and scope of research programs; • the progress of pre-clinical and clinical development activities; • the progress of the development efforts of Novogen or any other parties with whom we enter into research and development agreements; • our ability to establish and maintain current and new research and development and licensing arrangements; • our ability to achieve milestones under licensing arrangements; and • the costs involved in enforcing or defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and the costs and timing of regulatory approvals. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on favourable terms we may be required to cease or reduce our operations. Also, if we raise more funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock, your ownership interests may be diluted. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than phenoxodiol. The development of phenoxodiol and other drug candidates is highly competitive. A number of other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development that are intended for the same therapeutic indications for which phenoxodiol is being developed. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than phenoxodiol and may be commercialized sooner. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, phenoxodiol may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. 23 With respect to the use of phenoxodiol for late-stage prostate cancer, docetaxel, a drug distributed by Aventis, was approved in 2004 by the FDA for the treatment of hormone refractory prostate cancer, establishing a new bench-mark for standard chemotherapy in late-stage prostate cancer. We do not believe this is a direct competitor because our strategy is to develop phenoxodiol as a chemosensitizer for docetaxel in patients with prostate cancer who become refractory to docetaxel. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are known to be seeking to develop drugs for the same indication. With respect to the use of phenoxodiol as a chemo-sensitizing agent to restore sensitivity to platinum-based drugs in late-stage ovarian cancer, the experimental drug, Telcyta (Telik Inc.) is a directly competitive drug. Telcyta currently is in a Phase III registration trial suggesting that it has shown sufficient promise in a Phase II study to warrant progression to a Phase III study. The different trialing regimes being used by us with phenoxodiol and by Telik Inc with Telcyta make it difficult to compare the two drugs for efficacy in this area and, as a result, we cannot evaluate the level of competition. However, we expect that at any level of efficacy, Telcyta, should it be approved for marketing, would represent a serious competitor for phenoxodiol. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors developing oncologic drugs have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than us. These organizations also compete with Novogen, our services provider, to recruit qualified personnel, and with us to attract partners for joint ventures and to license technologies that are competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies or our drug candidates obsolete or non-competitive. Our right to develop and exploit phenoxodiol is subject to the terms and conditions of agreements we have entered into with Novogen, and under these agreements our rights may be terminated under certain circumstances, some of which may be beyond our control. We have licensed the intellectual property in the phenoxodiol technology from Novogen. All forms of administering phenoxodiol for the treatment of cancer are licensed to us, excluding topical applications. If we fail to meet our obligations under our license agreement, the manufacturing license and supply agreement or the services agreement with Novogen, any or all of these agreements may be terminated by Novogen and we could lose our rights to develop phenoxodiol. As of the date of this annual report, we have no reason to believe that we will be unable to satisfy our obligations under these agreements. In addition, each of these agreements may be terminated immediately by Novogen in the event that we undergo a change of control without the consent of Novogen. A “change of control” means a change in control of more than half the voting rights attaching to the shares of our subsidiary, a change in control of more than half of the issued shares of our subsidiary (not counting any share which carries no right to participate beyond a specified amount in the distribution of either profit or capital) or a change in control of the composition of the board of directors of our subsidiary. Each of these agreements may also be terminated if we become the subject of certain bankruptcy proceedings or cease for any reason to be able to lawfully carry out all the transactions required by each respective agreement. Our license rights are fundamental to our business and therefore a loss of these rights will likely cause us to cease operations. The rights granted to us under the license agreement, the manufacturing license and supply agreement and the license option deed with Novogen are fundamental to our business. 24 The license agreement grants us the right to make, have made, market, distribute, sell, hire or otherwise dispose of phenoxodiol products in the field of prevention, treatment or cure of cancer in humans by pharmaceuticals delivered in all forms except topical applications. Our business purpose is to develop and commercialize cancer drugs including phenoxodiol, which we would be unable to pursue without the rights granted to us under the license agreement. Under the manufacturing license and supply agreement, we have granted to Novogen an exclusive sub-license to manufacture and supply phenoxodiol to us in its primary manufactured form and Novogen has agreed to manufacture for us our required quantities of phenoxodiol. This agreement enables us to protect the licensed intellectual property rights used in the manufacturing process while securing the services of a manufacturing partner in Novogen, which through its equity position in us, shares a common interest in the production of phenoxodiol. The license option deed grants us an exclusive first right to accept and exclusive last right to match any proposed dealing by Novogen with its intellectual property rights with a third party relating to certain compounds (other than phenoxodiol) developed by Novogen and its affiliates which have applications in the field of prevention, treatment or cure of cancer in humans. The license option deed is important to our business because it allows us to maintain control over the sale by Novogen of complementary as well as potentially competitive intellectual property rights to third party competitors. Any loss of the rights under any of these agreements will likely cause us to cease operations. The success of phenoxodiol is largely dependent on Novogen’s ability to obtain and maintain patent protection and preserve trade secrets, which cannot be guaranteed. Patent protection and trade secret protection are important to our business and our future will depend, in part on our ability and the ability of Novogen to maintain trade secret protection, obtain patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others both in the United States and abroad. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents, or to protect our trade secrets or the trade secrets of Novogen. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention. Novogen has not been involved in any opposition re-examination trade secret dispute, infringement litigation or any other litigation or legal proceedings pertaining to the licensed patent rights. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Novogen has applied for patents in a number of countries with respect to the use of phenoxodiol for the treatment, prevention or cure of cancer. We have licensed both issued patents and pending patent applications from Novogen. Novogen has issued patents in the United States, Australia and Singapore covering the use of phenoxodiol to prevent, or treat skin cancer from ultraviolet damage. Novogen also has patents issued in Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand and the United Kingdom related to phenoxodiol for the treatment of a variety of cancers and has recently received a notice of allowance in the United States that is also related to phenoxodiol for the treatment of a variety of cancers. Novogen’s applications may not proceed to grant or may be amended to reduce the scope of protection of any patent granted. The applications and patents may also be opposed or challenged by third parties. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on the ability of Novogen and our ability to obtain and maintain effective patent protection for the technologies underlying phenoxodiol and other compounds, and to successfully defend patent rights in those technologies against third-party challenges. As patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until published or issued and as publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that Novogen was the first to make the inventions covered by its pending patent applications or issued patents or that it was the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Additionally, the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents or their enforceability cannot be predicted. We cannot be sure that any additional patents will issue from any of Novogen’s patent applications or, should any patents issue, that we will be provided with 25 adequate protection against potentially competitive products. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that should patents issue, they will be of commercial value to us, or that private parties, including competitors, will not successfully challenge our patents or circumvent our patent position in the United States or abroad. Claims by other companies that we infringe their proprietary technology may result in liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and patents have been applied for by, and issued to, other parties relating to products competitive with phenoxodiol. Therefore, phenoxodiol and any other drug candidates may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of other parties existing now and in the future. Furthermore, to the extent that we or Novogen or our respective consultants or research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in work performed for us or Novogen, disputes may also arise as to the rights in such intellectual property or in resulting know-how and inventions. An adverse claim could subject us to significant liabilities to such other parties and/or require disputed rights to be licensed from such other parties. Under the terms of the Manufacturing License and Supply Agreement, Novogen is responsible for producing the required amount of phenoxodiol for our clinical program and subsequent commercial quantities. Novogen is currently undertaking formulation development and manufacturing process development work for both the intravenous and oral dose formulations. This work is being conducted to ensure that there is a robust production process which meets the expected commercial quantities of phenoxodiol and that both the intravenous and oral dose formulations are manufactured on a cost effective basis. During this process Novogen has identified a number of excipients that may be used in the formulations of phenoxodiol. Excipients, among other things, perform the function of a carrier of the active drug ingredient in the intravenous formulation. Some of these identified excipients or carriers may be included in third party patents in some countries. We intend to seek a license if we decide to use a patented excipient in the marketed intravenous product or we may choose one of those excipients that do not have a license requirement. We cannot be sure that any license required under any such patents or proprietary rights would be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may encounter delays in product market introductions, or may find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses may be precluded. We have not conducted any searches or made any independent investigations of the existence of any patents or proprietary rights of other parties. We may be subject to substantial costs stemming from our defense against third-party intellectual property infringement claims. Third parties may assert that we or Novogen are using their proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also have or obtain patents and may claim that technologies licensed to or used by us infringe their patents. If we are required to defend patent infringement actions brought by third parties, or if we sue to protect our own patent rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs and managerial attention may be diverted from business operations even if the outcome is not adverse to us. In addition, any legal action that seeks damages or an injunction to stop us from carrying on our commercial activities relating to the affected technologies could subject us to monetary liability and require us or Novogen or any third party licensors to obtain a license to continue to use the affected technologies. We cannot predict whether we or Novogen would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In the event that Novogen does not comply with its obligations under a grant from the Australian government under which phenoxodiol was, in part, developed, our rights to use the intellectual property relating to phenoxodiol and developed by Novogen may revert back to the Australian government. 26 Novogen developed phenoxodiol in part using funds from the Australian government under what is known as the START Program. Under the START Program, Novogen must meet certain project development and commercialization obligations. Novogen has met the project development obligations and has received final payment thereon. Novogen believes it is currently in compliance with its commercialization schedule. Although Novogen believes that it has complied with its obligations under the START Program, if the Australian government disagrees or if Novogen undergoes a change of control without the prior consent of the Australian Government, the Australian government has a right to demand that intellectual property created during the course of the project funded by the grant be vested back in the Australian government or demand repayment of the funds paid to Novogen under the program. The Australian government may then license the intellectual property rights related to phenoxodiol to other parties and may demand other intellectual property rights from Novogen. Any such reclamation by the Australian government could preclude our use of Novogen’s intellectual property in the development and commercialization of phenoxodiol and we may have to compete with other companies to whom the Australian government may license the intellectual property. The enforcement of civil liabilities against our officers and directors may be difficult. All of our officers and directors are residents of jurisdictions outside the United States. As a result it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon our officers and directors or to enforce judgments obtained against our officers and directors or us in United States courts. Our revenue is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Much of our expenditures and potential revenue will be spent or derived outside of the United States. As a result, fluctuations between the United States dollar and the currencies of the countries in which we operate may increase our costs or reduce our potential revenue. At present, we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainly in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. We are authorized to issue a class of blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue a class of blank check preferred stock with rights potentially senior to those of our common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our shares, or making a change in control of us more difficult. We are in the process of strengthening our internal control over financial reporting. We have determined that the personnel and management of Novogen, who perform our accounting and financial reporting functions pursuant to our services agreement with Novogen, are not sufficiently expert in U.S. GAAP and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and that this lack of expertise represents a material weakness in the operation of the our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we have also determined that our system of financial reporting was not designed to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and that our system of internal control, in particular our processes to review and analyze elements of the financial statement close process and prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, has not reduced to a relatively low 27 level the risk that errors in amounts that would be material in relation to those financial statements may occur and may not be detected within a timely period by management in the normal course of business. We and Novogen have undertaken a re- evaluation of our internal controls and procedures and have implemented such enhancements as appropriate. While we have taken measures designed to address the above matters, we and Novogen may need to implement additional measures to further enhance our internal controls and procedures. We are exposed to certain potential risks from recent legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are evaluating our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to this report, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are performing the system and process evaluation and testing, and implementing any necessary remediation required, in an effort to comply with the management reporting and public accounting firm attestation requirements and continue to incur additional expenses and devote significant management time towards completing actions required for management’s evaluation. The evaluation and attestation processes required by Section 404 are new and, consequently, public companies and public accounting firms are still developing their experience in complying with these requirements. While we have developed and are implementing plans to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since, like other public companies, we are undergoing the process for the first time in a regulatory environment where the standards to assess adequacy of compliance are under development. We cannot assure you that there may not be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported as a result of the process. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Novogen As our majority stockholder, Novogen has the ability to determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and Novogen’s interests may conflict with ours or our other stockholders’ interests. Novogen beneficially owns approximately 86.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Novogen will have the ability to effectively determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Novogen will have the ability to effectively control our management and affairs. Novogen’s interests may not always be the same as that of our other stockholders. In addition this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our shares by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender, offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or • selling us to a third party. A number of our directors are officers and/or directors of Novogen which may create a conflict of interest. 28 Three of our six existing board members currently serve as board members of Novogen. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Christopher Naughton, is the Managing Director of Novogen. Our Chairman and Phenoxodiol Program Director, Professor Graham Kelly, is an executive of Novogen. Our Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, David Ross Seaton, is the Chief Financial Officer of Novogen. Simultaneous service as a Novogen director or officer can create, or appear to create, a conflict of interest, when such directors or officers are presented with decisions that could have different implications for us and for Novogen. We depend on a number of key personnel whose services are provided by Novogen under our services agreement. If we are not able to procure these services in the future, the strategic direction of the clinical development program would be disrupted, causing a delay in phenoxodiol’s commercialization. We currently rely on Professor Graham Kelly, our Chairman and Phenoxodiol Program Director, Professor Alan Husband, Novogen Research Director, and Mr. Christopher Naughton, our President and CEO, to provide the strategic direction for the clinical development of phenoxodiol. If we are unable to secure the ongoing services of these key personnel, the commercialization program for phenoxodiol will be disrupted and will cause delays in obtaining marketing approval. Novogen has entered into employment agreements and maintains key man life insurance policies for each of these persons. The ongoing criminal investigations involving Professor Kelly, our Chairman and Phenoxodiol Program Director, could have a material adverse effect on our business or cause our stock price to decline. Professor Kelly is one of a number of individuals who, and whose associated entities and advisors, have been the subject of investigations by certain Australian authorities relative to their alleged involvement in the evasion of Australian tax, fraud and money laundering. Professor Kelly has informed us that he does not believe that he has committed any wrongdoing and denies that he has been involved in any wrongdoing. Nevertheless, Professor Kelly may need to allocate time and resources to deal with the investigation. Additionally, if the Australian authorities were to decide to prosecute Professor Kelly upon concluding their investigation and if such prosecution were to result in a conviction, Professor Kelly may be barred from acting as an officer or director and may become unavailable to us. Any publicity related to this investigation or potential prosecution or conviction of Professor Kelly could have a material adverse effect on our business or cause our stock price to decline. Novogen can compete with us. We have no contract, arrangement or understanding with Novogen to preclude it from developing a product which may be competitive with phenoxodiol or to use phenoxodiol for any uses other than anticancer applications. Novogen has reserved the intellectual property rights and know-how rights relating to topical applications of phenoxodiol even in the field of cancer. There can be no assurance that Novogen or its subsidiaries will not pursue alternative technologies or product candidates as a means of developing treatments for the conditions targeted by phenoxodiol or any other product candidate which we seek to exploit. We are dependent on Novogen for our personnel. We have no employees. We rely on Novogen to provide or procure the provision of staff and other financial and administrative services under our services agreement with Novogen. We believe Novogen has fully complied with the terms of our services agreement. As discussed above, though, we have determined that the personnel and management of Novogen, who perform our accounting and financial reporting functions pursuant to our services agreement with Novogen, are not sufficiently expert in U.S. GAAP and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Public 29 Company Accounting Oversight Board. While we and Novogen have taken measures designed to address this matter, we cannot assure you that Novogen will be able to provide personnel and management that are sufficiently expert in these areas. To successfully develop phenoxodiol, we will require ongoing access to the personnel who have, to date, been responsible for the development of phenoxodiol. The services agreement does not specify a minimum amount of time that Novogen employees must devote to our operations. If we are unable to secure or if we lose the services of these personnel, the ability to develop phenoxodiol could be materially impaired. Moreover, if our business experiences substantial and rapid growth, we may not be able to secure the services and resources we require from Novogen or from other persons to support that growth. We are largely dependent on Novogen for our supply of phenoxodiol and should Novogen be unable to supply commercial quantities of phenoxodiol, it may be difficult to secure an alternative source. We currently intend that phenoxodiol will be supplied to us in its primary manufactured form by Novogen under the manufacturing license and supply agreement. As the manufacturing process for phenoxodiol has not been tested in the quantities needed for commercial sales, we may he unable to receive the necessary quantities in a timely manner. In addition, in order for Novogen to supply commercial quantities of phenoxodiol in due course, it will need to contract third party manufacture. If Novogen materially and persistently fails to supply us with the quantities of phenoxodiol that we require, the manufacturing license and supply agreement permits us, and we could consider contracting with third party manufacturers for the production of phenoxodiol. Any third party manufacturer would have to satisfy cGMPs and would have to meet our quality assurance standards. In addition, it may be difficult to negotiate acceptable terms with any third party manufacturer. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of the shares of our common stock could be highly volatile and could decline in value and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock could be highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning phenoxodiol; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • new products introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and genomics industries; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • the liquidity of any market for our securities; • trading prices of our common stock on the Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange; and • additional sales by us or Novogen of shares of our common stock. 30 In addition equity markets in general and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. In addition, changes in economic conditions in the United States, Europe or globally, could impact upon our ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside our control and may result in material adverse impacts on our business or our results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our shares of common stock, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. You will not be able to exercise the warrants if we do not maintain the effectiveness of the registration statement and a current prospectus. If we do not maintain an effective registration statement and a current prospectus or comply with applicable state securities laws, you may not be able to exercise the warrants. In order for you to be able to exercise the warrants, the shares underlying the warrants must be covered by an effective registration statement and a current prospectus and be qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the state in which you reside. Although we cannot assure you that we will actually be able to do so, we will use our best efforts to: • maintain an effective registration statement and a current prospectus covering the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants at all times when the market price of the common stock exceeds the exercise price of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants; and • maintain the registration of such shares under the securities laws of the states, if any, in which we initially qualify the common stock units for sale in this offering. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including the shares covered by this annual report, or the perception that these sales could occur. In addition, these factors could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future equity offerings. As of July 31, 2005, we had 56,938,000 shares of our common stock outstanding not including the 2,392,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants. We may also acquire other companies or technologies or finance strategic alliances by issuing equity, which may result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We will have broad discretion over the use of the net proceeds to us from any exercise of outstanding warrants. We will have broad discretion to use the net proceeds to us upon any exercise of outstanding warrants, and you will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors and management regarding the application of these proceeds. Although we expect to use a substantial portion of the net proceeds from any exercise of the warrants for general corporate purposes, including potential payments to Novogen under the terms of the license agreement, potential licensing of other cancer compounds developed by Novogen under the license option deed and potential expansion of the clinical trial program for phenoxodiol to include other forms of cancer, we have not allocated these net proceeds for specific purposes. 31 