Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Although we have grouped risk factors by category, the categories are not mutually exclusive. Risks described under one category may also apply to another category, and you should carefully read the entire risk factors section, not just any one category of risk factors. Risks Related to Our Industry, Business and Operations Challenges exist in implementing revisions to our business model. Since the beginning of fiscal 2009, we have taken several measures to adjust our business in response to economic conditions. Most significantly, we refined our service offerings and added fee-for-service offerings such as loan origination services and portfolio management. During fiscal 2010, we completed the development of our Monogram platform, including an enhanced application interface, an expanded credit decisioning model and additional reporting capabilities. We continue to incorporate refinements to our Monogram platform. During fiscal 2011, we began originating Monogram-based education loans under loan program agreements and began offering outsourced tuition planning, tuition billing and payment technology services for educational institutions through TMS. In fiscal 2012, we began offering refund management services to education institutions and students through TMS. In October 2012, we began providing education loan processing and disbursement services to credit unions, banks and schools in the United States, as well as offering life-of-loan servicing, through Cology LLC. Successful sales of our service offerings, particularly our Monogram platform, TMS offerings and Cology LLC offerings, will be critical to stemming our losses and growing and diversifying our revenues and client base in the future. We are uncertain as to the degree of market acceptance that our Monogram platform will achieve, particularly in the current economic environment where there has been reluctance by many lenders to focus on education lending opportunities. Through September 13, 2013, we have entered into loan program agreements 19 Table of Contents with four lender clients for Monogram-based loan programs, including FMD’s subsidiary Union Federal. The process of negotiating loan program agreements can be lengthy and complicated. Both the timing and success of contractual negotiations are unpredictable and partially outside of our control, and we cannot assure you that we will successfully identify potential clients or ultimately reach acceptable terms with any particular party with which we begin negotiations. Moreover, we are uncertain of the extent to which borrowers will choose Monogram-based loans offered by our lender clients, which depends, in part, on competitive factors such as brand and pricing. Several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical or other competitive resources than we or our clients have, including funding capacity. As a result, our competitors or potential competitors may be better able to overcome capital markets dislocations, adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences or compete for skilled professionals, or may be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services. In particular, competitors with larger customer bases, greater name or brand recognition or more established customer relationships than those of our clients have an advantage in attracting loan applicants and making education loans on a recurring, or “serialized,” basis. We are uncertain of the total application volume for fiscal 2014 and beyond, the extent to which application volume will ultimately result in disbursed loans and the overall characteristics of the disbursed loan portfolio. Commercial banks have historically served as the initial funding sources for the education loans we facilitate and have been our principal clients. Since the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we have not facilitated securitization transactions to support the long-term funding of education loans, and commercial banks may be facing liquidity and credit challenges from other sources, in particular mortgage, auto loan and credit card lending losses. In addition, the synergies that previously existed between federal and private education loan marketing have been eliminated by legislation that eliminated FFELP. As a result, many lenders have re-evaluated their business strategies related to education lending. In light of legislative and regulatory changes, general economic conditions, capital markets disruptions and the overall credit performance of consumer-related loans, the education loan business may be less attractive to commercial banks than in the past. Demand for our services may not increase unless additional lenders enter or re-enter the marketplace, which could depend in part on capital markets conditions and improved market conditions for other consumer financing segments. Some of our former clients and competitors have exited the education loan market completely. To the extent that commercial banks exit the education loan market, the number of our prospective clients diminishes. One of our primary challenges is to convince national and regional lenders that they can address this market opportunity in a manner that meets their desired risk control and return objectives. A related challenge is to successfully finance education loans generated through our Monogram platform through capital market transactions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in either the short-term or the long-term in meeting these challenges. Our business model depends on our ability to facilitate Monogram-based education loan volumes substantially in excess of those that we have originated to date and those contemplated by our four lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs. We have been required to expend capital to support loan volume under our Monogram platform. Specifically, a portion of the loan volume to date under our Monogram platform has been originated by FMD’s subsidiary Union Federal and we have been further required to provide credit enhancements for Monogram-based loans originated by certain of our lender clients by funding participation accounts or, in the case of Union Federal, deposit accounts, to serve as a first-loss reserve for defaulted program loans. While we believe that we have sufficient capital resources to continue to provide such support to our Monogram platform under our business model, our ability to return to profitability while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity will be predicated, in part, on our ability to fund participation accounts at levels lower than we are today, as well as the availability of higher capital markets advance rates, including the continued re-emergence of subordinate bonds in the private education loan securitization market, than are available today. We will need to facilitate substantial loan volume, achieve market acceptance of our Monogram platform and TMS’ offerings, cross-sell our Monogram platform to Cology LLC clients and continue to manage our expenses, among other things, in order to return to profitability. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is dependent on many factors. Primarily, we believe that the following must occur in order for us to return to profitability: • We need to facilitate loan volumes substantially in excess of those that we have originated to date, and substantially in excess of those contemplated by our four lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs. Because the revenues that we expect to generate for Monogram-based loan programs will depend in part on the size, credit mix and actual performance of our lender clients’ loan portfolios, it is difficult for us to forecast the level or timing of our revenues or cash flows with respect to our Monogram platform generally or a specific lender client’s Monogram-based loan program. • We need to attract additional lender clients, or otherwise obtain additional sources of interim or permanent financing, such as securitizations or alternative financing transactions, particularly given that one of our four partnered lending clients provides the majority of our Monogram-based loan program fees, which subjects us to concentration risk as it relates to this revenue stream. Additionally, the level of loan originations for the Union Federal Private Student Loan Program is subject to regulatory limits that are based upon the overall size of Union Federal’s balance sheet and Union Federal’s capital levels, as determined by FMD. As a result, Union Federal’s business plan includes a limit on the amount of education loans to be held on its balance sheet, and any material change to Union Federal’s business plan would be subject to regulatory conditions as well as prior regulatory approval for any interim or permanent financing of education loan portfolios held by Union Federal, including future securitization transactions. Consequently, we cannot assure you that Union Federal will be able to serve as a meaningful funding lender in the future for Monogram-based loan programs. • Deployment of our Monogram platform, and disbursed loan volume under our lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs, has been limited, and we will need to gain widespread market acceptance of our Monogram platform among lenders, and of our lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs among borrowers, in order to improve our long-term financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If we do not succeed in doing so, we may need to re-evaluate our business plans and operations. • Deployment of TMS’ refund management services and its Student Account Center product has been limited, and we will need to gain widespread market acceptance of our refund management services and Student Account Center product among TMS’ existing clients as well as new clients, in order to improve our long-term financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. • We need to cross-sell aspects of our Monogram platform on a stand-alone basis to Cology LLC’s credit union clients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve widespread market acceptance by these credit union clients of these additional services. Successful sales of our Monogram platform offerings to Cology LLC’s clients will be an important factor in realizing the benefits of the asset acquisition and in diversifying our revenues. • We need to continue to actively manage our expenses in the current economic environment to better align costs with our current business. In the past we have engaged in cost reduction initiatives and we may need to engage in similar cost reduction initiatives in the future. Despite our efforts to structure our business to operate in a cost-effective manner, some cost reduction measures could have unexpected negative consequences. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses and run our business in a cost-effective manner, our results of operations would be harmed and it may impact our return to profitability. We have incurred net losses since fiscal 2008 and could incur losses in the future. We have generated significant net losses since fiscal 2008, and may continue to incur losses. There can be no assurance that we will report net income in any future period. We must develop new lender client relationships and substantially increase our revenues derived from our Monogram platform, TMS offerings and Cology LLC offerings. We are actively managing our expenses in the current economic environment and in light of the status of our business. To the extent that we are not able to increase our revenues and continue to manage our operating expenses, we will continue to experience net losses. 21 Table of Contents We have provided credit enhancements in connection with Monogram-based loan programs for certain of our lender clients and may enter into similar arrangements in connection with future loan programs. As a result, we have capital at risk in connection with our lender clients’ loan programs. We may lose some or all of the capital we have provided and our financial results could be adversely affected. In connection with certain of our lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs, we have provided credit enhancements by funding participation accounts or, in the case of Union Federal, deposit accounts, to serve as a first-loss reserve for defaulted program loans. We have limited amounts of cash available to offer to prospective clients, and there is a risk that lenders will not enter into loan program agreements with us unless we offer credit enhancement. We expect that the amount of any such credit enhancement arrangement offered to a particular lender would be determined based on the particular terms of the lender’s loan program, including the anticipated size of the lender’s program and the underwriting guidelines of the program, as well as the particular terms of our business relationship with the lender. Should additional lenders require credit enhancement from us as a condition to entering into a loan program agreement, our growth may be constrained by the level of capital available to us. In addition, growth of Union Federal’s Monogram-based loan programs may be constrained by the amount of capital we are able to provide. We have made deposits pursuant to our credit enhancement arrangements and agreed to provide periodic supplemental deposits, up to specified limits, during the disbursement periods under our loan program agreements based on the credit mix and volume of disbursed program loans and adjustments to default projections for program loans. To the extent that outstanding loan volume decreases as a result of repayments, or if actual loan volumes or default experience are less than our funded amounts, we are eligible to receive periodic releases of funds. The timing and amount of releases, if any, from the participation accounts are uncertain and vary among the loan programs. As of June 30, 2013, the fair value of our funded credit enhancements was $13.1 million. We could lose some or all of the amounts that we have deposited, or will deposit in the future, in the participation accounts, depending on the performance of the portfolio of program loans. Such losses would erode our liquidity position and could damage business prospects for our Monogram platform. Our Monogram platform is based on proprietary scoring models and risk mitigation and pricing strategies that we have developed. We have limited experience with the actual performance of loan portfolios generated by lenders based on our Monogram platform, and we may need to adjust marketing, pricing or other strategies from time to time based on the distribution of loan volume among credit tiers or competitive considerations. We must closely monitor the characteristics and performance of each lender’s loan portfolio in order to suggest adjustments to the lenders’ programs and tailor our default prevention and collection management strategies. The infrastructure that we have built for such monitoring requires extensive operational and data integration among the loan servicer, multiple default prevention and recovery collection agencies and us. To the extent that our infrastructure is inadequate or we are otherwise unsuccessful in identifying portfolio performance characteristics and trends, or to the extent that lenders are unwilling to adjust their loan programs, our risk of losing amounts deposited in the participation accounts or, in the case of Union Federal, deposit accounts, may increase. The outsourcing services market for education financing is competitive and if we are not able to compete effectively, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. We offer our clients and prospective clients, national and regional financial and educational institutions, services in structuring and supporting their education loan programs and tuition payment processing plans. The outsourcing services market in which we operate is competitive with a number of active participants, some of which have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical or other competitive resources than we or our clients have, including funding capacity. As a result, our competitors or potential competitors may be better able to overcome capital markets dislocations, adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences or compete for skilled professionals, build upon efficiencies based on a larger volume of loan transactions, fund internal growth and compete for market share, than we are. In particular, competitors with larger customer bases, greater name or brand recognition or more established customer relationships than those of our clients have an advantage in attracting loan applicants at a lower acquisition cost than us. These disadvantages are particularly acute for us because we have only been operating Monogram-based loan programs since fiscal 2011. 22 Table of Contents Based on the range of services that we offer, we believe that Sallie Mae is our principal competitor. Our business could be adversely affected if Sallie Mae’s private education loan program continues to grow, or if Sallie Mae seeks to market more aggressively to third parties the full range of services that we offer. Other education loan competitors include Wells Fargo & Company and Discover Financial Services. In addition, LendKey Technologies, Inc. and Campus Door Holdings Inc. compete directly with Cology LLC. Nelnet Business Solutions, TouchNet Information Systems, Inc. and Higher One Holdings, Inc. compete directly with TMS. We may face competition from loan originators, including our clients or former clients, if they choose to develop an internal capability to provide any of the services that we currently offer. For example, a loan originator that has developed, or decides to develop, a portfolio management or capital markets function may not choose to engage us for our services. Historically, lenders in the education loan market have focused their lending activities on federal loans because of the relative size of the federal loan market and because the federal government guarantees repayment of those loans, thereby significantly limiting the lenders’ credit risk. Following the elimination of FFELP, lenders are more focused on private education loans and some may seek to develop an internal capacity to conduct the services that we provide, which could result in a decline in the potential market for our services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with new or existing competitors. If we are not able to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The growth of our business could be adversely affected by changes in government education loan programs or expansions in the population of students eligible for loans under government education loan programs. We focus our business on the market for private education loans, and the majority of our business is concentrated in products for post-secondary education. The availability and terms of loans that the government originates or guarantees affects the demand for private education loans because students and their families often rely on private education loans to bridge a gap between available funds, including family savings, scholarships, grants and federal and state loans, and the costs of post-secondary education. The federal government currently places both annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of federal loans that any student can receive and determines the criteria for student eligibility. These guidelines are generally adjusted in connection with funding authorizations from the U.S. Congress for programs under the Higher Education Act of 1965. Recent federal legislation expanded federal grant and loan assistance, which could weaken the demand for private education loans. The creation of similar federal or state programs that make additional government loan funds available could decrease the demand for private education loans. Access to alternative means of financing the costs of education may reduce demand for private education loans. The demand for private education loans could weaken if student borrowers use other vehicles to bridge the gap between available funds and costs of post-secondary education. These vehicles include, among others: • Home equity loans or other borrowings available to families to finance their education costs; • Pre-paid tuition plans, which allow students to pay tuition at today’s rates to cover tuition costs in the future; • Section 529 plans, which include both pre-paid tuition plans and college savings plans, that allow a family to save funds on a tax-advantaged basis; • Education IRAs, now known as Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, under which a holder can make annual contributions for education savings; • Government education loan programs, generally, and interest rates on the loans under these programs, specifically; and • Direct loans from colleges and universities. 23 Table of Contents If demand for private education loans weakens, we would experience reduced demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Continuation of the current economic conditions could adversely affect the education loan industry. High unemployment rates and the unsteady financial sector have adversely affected many consumers, loan applicants and borrowers throughout the country. Loan applicants that have experienced trouble repaying credit obligations may not be able to meet the credit standards of our lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs, which could limit our lending market or have a negative effect on the rate at which loan applications convert into disbursed loans. In addition, current borrowers may experience more trouble in repaying credit obligations, which could increase loan delinquencies, defaults and forbearance, or otherwise negatively affect loan portfolio performance and the estimated fair value of our service revenue receivables and our participation accounts. Forbearance programs may have the effect of delaying default emergence, and alternative payment plans may reduce the utilization of basic forbearance. In addition, some consumers may find that higher education is an unnecessary investment during turbulent economic times and defer enrollment in educational institutions until the economy improves or turn to less costly forms of secondary education, thus decreasing education loan application and funding volumes. Finally, many lending institutions have been reluctant to lend and have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, and several clients and potential clients have exited the education loan business and may not seek our services as the economy improves. If the adverse economic environment continues, our financial condition may deteriorate for any one of the foregoing reasons. If our clients do not actively or successfully market and fund education loans, our business will be adversely affected. We have in the past relied, and will continue to rely in part, on our clients to market and fund education loans to borrowers. If our clients do not devote sufficient time, emphasis or resources to marketing their Monogram-based loan programs or are not successful in these efforts, then we may not reach the full potential of our capacity for disbursed loan volume and our business will be adversely affected. In addition, our lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs, and related marketing efforts, may not necessarily extend nationwide and, in fact, may focus on a limited geographic footprint. In addition, if education loans were or are marketed by our clients in a manner that is found to be unfair, deceptive or abusive, or if the marketing, origination or servicing violated or violates any applicable law, federal or state unfair and deceptive practices acts could impose liability or, even in limited circumstances, create defenses to the enforceability of the loan. Investigations by state Attorneys General, the CFPB, the U.S. Congress or others could have a negative impact on lenders’ desire to originate and market education loans. The Higher Education Opportunity Act creates significant additional restrictions on the marketing of education loans. If we fail to manage our cost reductions effectively, our business could be disrupted and our financial results could be adversely affected. We have engaged in cost reduction initiatives in the past and we may engage in cost reduction initiatives in the future. These types of cost reduction activities are complex. Even if we carry out these strategies in the manner we expect, we may not be able to achieve the efficiencies or savings we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate, and any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Furthermore, we continue to experience negative net operating cash flows. Our continued use of cash to fund operations may necessitate further significant changes to our cost structure if we are unable to grow our revenue base to the level necessary to fund our ongoing operations. In addition, cost reduction initiatives have placed and will continue to place a burden on our management, systems and resources, generally increasing our dependence on key persons and reducing functional back-ups. We must retain, train, supervise and manage our employees effectively during this period of change in our business and our ability to respond in a timely and effective fashion to unanticipated exigencies of our business model could be negatively affected during this transition. Furthermore, we believe that retaining our employees 24 Table of Contents may become more difficult as we face an increasingly competitive landscape with respect to talented employees as the economy continues to re-emerge from the financial crisis. We are particularly dependent on the continuing members of our management team and the loss of any of these key employees could adversely affect our business. As part of our previous cost reduction initiatives we have terminated employees, including members of senior management. Although we believe that our capital resources as of June 30, 2013, which include proceeds of tax refunds under audit, are sufficient to satisfy our operating needs for the succeeding 12 months, we cannot assure you that they will be sufficient, particularly in light of ongoing income tax audits. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Fiscal Years ended June 30, 2013, June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011—Overall Results—Continuing Operations—Internal Revenue Service Audit” included in Item 7 of this annual report for additional information. Insufficient funds could require us to, among other things, terminate additional employees, which could, in turn, place additional strain on any remaining employees and could further disrupt our business, including our ability to grow and expand our business. We may outsource some borrower or client service functions in an effort to reduce costs, take advantage of technologies and effectively manage the seasonality associated with education loan volume and tuition payment processing. We rely on our vendors to provide high levels of service and support. Our reliance on external vendors subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely service and could result in problems with service or support that we would not experience if we performed the service functions in-house. If we are unable to manage our cost reductions, or if we lose key employees or are unable to attract and properly train new employees, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected. If competitors or potential competitors acquire or develop an education loan database or advanced loan information processing systems, our business could be adversely affected. We own a database of historical information on education loan performance that we use to help us enhance our proprietary origination risk score model, determine the terms of portfolio funding transactions and derive the estimates and assumptions we make in preparing our consolidated financial statements and cash flow models. We have also developed a proprietary loan information processing system to enhance our application processing and loan origination capabilities. We believe that our education loan database and loan information processing system provide us with a competitive advantage in offering our services. A third party could create or acquire databases and systems such as ours, especially in light of the transition of our special servicing to third parties. As lenders and other organizations in the education loan market originate or service loans, they compile over time information for their own education loan performance database. Our competitors and potential competitors may have originated or serviced a greater volume of education loans than we have over the past several years, which may have provided them with comparatively greater borrower or loan data, particularly during the most recent economic cycle. If a third party creates or acquires an education loan database or develops a loan information processing system, our competitive positioning, ability to attract new clients and business could be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and processes, the value of our services and technology could be adversely affected. We rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our proprietary information and processes. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with third parties and with most of our employees to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information. These methods may neither effectively prevent use or disclosure of our confidential or proprietary information nor provide meaningful protection for our confidential or proprietary information if there is unauthorized use or disclosure. We own no material patents. Accordingly, our technology, including our loan information processing systems, is not covered by patents that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our market. Monitoring unauthorized use of the systems and processes that we have developed is difficult, and we cannot be 25 Table of Contents certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and services could be adversely affected. Our business processes are becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, and we could lose clients and market share if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to process loan applications and tuition-related payments in an automated manner with high-quality service standards. The volume of loan originations and tuition-related payments that we are able to process is based, in large part, on the systems and processes we have implemented and developed. These systems and processes are becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, such as the ability to review applications and process loans and payments over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide initial decisions instantly. Our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. In addition, the industry in which TMS competes has undergone rapid technological change over the past several years. We have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform in order to provide competitive products and services to our clients. If competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are better than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, those that we offer or use may become obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, if we fail to execute our lender clients’ origination requirements or properly administer our clients’ credit agreement templates or required disclosures, if TMS fails to properly administer its tuition payment plans or other services or if Cology LLC fails to properly provide its education loan processing and disbursement services, we could be subject to breach of contract claims and related damages. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation and ability to obtain and retain clients. We may be required to expend significant funds to develop or acquire new technologies. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, we could lose clients and market share. We also could lose market share if our competitors develop more cost effective technologies than those we offer or develop. Our business could be adversely affected if PHEAA fails to provide adequate, proper or timely services or if our relationship with PHEAA terminates. As of June 30, 2013, PHEAA served as the sole loan servicer for our Monogram-based loan programs. Our arrangements with PHEAA allow us to avoid the overhead investment in servicing operations, but require us to rely on PHEAA to adequately service the education loans, including collecting payments, responding to borrower inquiries, effectively implementing servicing guidelines applicable to loans and communicating with borrowers whose loans have become delinquent. Reliance on PHEAA and other third parties to perform education loan servicing or collections subjects us to risks associated with inadequate, improper or untimely services. In the case of PHEAA, these risks include the failure to properly administer servicing guidelines, including forbearance programs, and failure to provide notice of developments in prepayments, delinquencies and defaults, and usage rates for forbearance programs, including alternative payment plans. In the case of third party collection agencies, these risks include failure to properly administer collections guidelines and compliance with federal and state laws and regulations relating to interactions with debtors. If our relationship with PHEAA terminates, we would either need to expand our operations or develop a relationship with another loan servicer, which could be time consuming and costly. In such event, our business could be adversely affected. An interruption in or breach of our information systems, or those of a third party on which we rely, may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our systems and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, penetration of our network by 26 Table of Contents hackers or other unauthorized users and natural disasters. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications or tuition-related payments and reduced efficiency in loan processing or our other services, including TMS’ and Cology LLC’s offerings. A failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in an obligation to notify clients in a number of states that require such notification, with possible civil liability and potentially large fines and penalties resulting from such failure, interruption or breach. Although we maintain and periodically test a business continuity and disaster recovery plan, the majority of our infrastructure and employees are concentrated in the Boston, Massachusetts, Providence, Rhode Island and Sacramento, California metropolitan areas. An interruption in services for any reason could adversely affect our ability to activate our contingency plan if we are unable to communicate among locations or employees. We cannot assure you that systems failures, interruptions or breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that we or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or communication systems interruptions may not be adequate, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems. The occurrence of any systems failure, interruption or breach could significantly impair the reputation of our brand, diminish the attractiveness of our services and harm our business. If we or one of our third party service providers experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties imposed by regulators, civil actions for damages and negative publicity, which could be costly, affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, state and federal legislative proposals, if enacted, may impose additional requirements on us to safeguard confidential customer information, which may result in increased compliance costs. Data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislation, legislative proposals and regulatory rule-making to address data privacy and security. Consequently, we may be subject to rapidly changing and increasingly extensive requirements intended to protect the consumer information that we process in connection with education loans and tuition payment plans. Implementation of systems and procedures to address these requirements has increased our compliance costs, and these costs may increase further as new requirements emerge. If we or one of our third party service providers were to experience a data security breach, or if we were to otherwise improperly disclose confidential customer or consumer information, such breach or other disclosure could be costly, generate negative publicity about us and adversely affect our relationships with our clients, including the lenders and educational institutions with which we do business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, such pending legislative proposals and regulations, if adopted, likely would result in substantial penalties for unauthorized disclosure of confidential consumer information. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in regulatory sanctions imposed on our lender clients and loss of business for us. We may be unable to integrate our business successfully and realize all of the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of a substantial portion of the operating assets of the Cology Sellers. Our acquisition of a substantial portion of the operating assets of the Cology Sellers is an important transaction for us. We have made several assumptions regarding cost and revenue synergies in connection with the acquisition, many of which are dependent upon how successful we are in integrating the business of Cology LLC. The difficulties of integrating Cology LLC’s operations include, among other things: • Retaining customers; • Consolidating corporate and administrative functions; • Coordinating sales and marketing functions; 27 Table of Contents • Selling Monogram-based products and services to Cology LLC clients; • Persuading employees that the First Marblehead and Cology LLC business cultures are compatible, maintaining morale and retaining key employees; and • Integrating Cology LLC’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of each company’s business and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the acquisition and the integration of Cology LLC’s operations could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects and impair the value of goodwill or intangible assets. We may face risks related to litigation that could result in significant legal expenses and settlement or damage awards. From time to time, we are subject to claims and litigation, which could seriously harm our business and require us to incur significant costs. In the past, we have been named as a defendant in securities class action lawsuits, and on August 28, 2013, a purported class action was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts against FMD and certain of our officers. We are generally obliged, to the extent permitted by law, to indemnify our current and former directors and officers who are named as defendants in these lawsuits. Defending against litigation may require significant attention and resources of management. Regardless of the outcome, such litigation could result in significant legal expenses. We may also be subject to employment claims in connection with employee terminations. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with us may claim that we have engaged in unfair hiring practices. These claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs defending ourselves or our employees against those claims, regardless of their merits. In addition, defending ourselves from those types of claims could divert our management’s attention from our operations. If we are a party to material litigation and if the defenses we claim are ultimately unsuccessful, or if we are unable to achieve a favorable settlement, we could be liable for large damage awards that could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial statements. Risks Related to Our Financial Reporting and Liquidity Our liquidity could be adversely affected if the sale of the Trust Certificate does not result in the tax consequences that we expect or if we are unable to successfully resolve the pending state tax matters. Effective March 31, 2009, we completed the sale of the Trust Certificate. In connection with the sale of the Trust Certificate, FMD entered into the Asset Services Agreement pursuant to which FMD provided various consulting and advisory services to the purchaser of the Trust Certificate. The sale generated a cash refund of federal and state income taxes previously paid of $189.3 million. The federal and state income tax consequences of the sale of the Trust Certificate, however, are complex and uncertain. The IRS has been conducting an audit of our tax returns for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2010, including a review of the tax treatment of the sale of the Trust Certificate, as well as the $45.1 million income tax refund that we received in October 2010. We announced on August 15, 2013 that, as part of the audit process, we expected to receive a NOPA from the IRS. On September 10, 2013 we received two NOPAs from the IRS that contain the proposed adjustments that we announced on August 15, 2013. In the NOPAs, the IRS asserts that our sale of the Trust Certificate should not be recognized for federal income tax purposes primarily because we retained the economic benefits and burdens of the Trust Certificate, including, among other things, retaining certain repurchase rights and data rights. The IRS further concludes that the transaction should be characterized as a financing instead of a sale and asserts that the sale of the Trust Certificate and the execution of the Asset Services Agreement had the impact of converting 28 Table of Contents taxable income to the owner from an accrual basis to a cash basis. As a result, the NOPAs propose to disallow the loss that generated the tax refunds that we previously received as well as require us to include income from the Trust Certificate from the March 31, 2009 sale date through June 30, 2011 in our taxable income for such years. If the IRS’ positions are successful, the disallowance of the loss, coupled with the additional taxable income after the sale date through June 30, 2011, would create federal income tax adjustments that we estimate to be approximately $300.0 million plus interest, with the interest continuing to accrue until the matter is resolved. The NOPAs do not address tax years beyond June 30, 2011. While we did not record an accrual for this matter in our consolidated financial statements at June 30, 2013 or when we received the NOPAs, such an accrual, if it becomes necessary, could be significant and material. The determination of whether or not to accrue a liability, if any, requires a significant amount of judgment and entails, by necessity, the need to incorporate estimates. The ongoing IRS audit or any other investigation, audit, appeals proceeding or suit relating to the sale of the Trust Certificate could result in substantial costs. A state taxing authority could also challenge our tax position in connection with the transactions, notwithstanding our receipt of any income tax refund. In addition, we are involved in several matters relating to the Massachusetts tax treatment of GATE. We took the position in the ATB proceedings that GATE was properly taxable as a financial institution and not as a business corporation and was entitled to apportion its income under applicable provisions of Massachusetts tax law. The Massachusetts Commissioner of Revenue, or the Commissioner, took alternative positions: that GATE was properly taxable as a business corporation, or that GATE was taxable as a financial institution, but was not entitled to apportionment or was subject to 100% Massachusetts apportionment. In December 2009, the Commissioner made additional assessments of taxes, along with accrued interest, of approximately $11.9 million for GATE’s taxable years ended June 30, 2004, 2005 and 2006, and approximately $8.1 million for our taxable years ended June 30, 2005 and 2006. On November 9, 2011, the ATB issued the ATB Order which concurred with our position that GATE was a financial institution but disagreed with our methodology utilized to apportion income. In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we made a $5.1 million payment that satisfied our obligation to the Massachusetts Department of Revenue for GATE’s taxable years ended June 30, 2004, 2005 and 2006. On April 17, 2013, the ATB issued the ATB Opinion. On July 22, 2013, we filed an appeal of certain of the ATB’s findings in the Massachusetts Appeals Court. The appeal of the ATB’s findings includes a refund claim with respect to the $5.1 million payment made in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. The Commissioner has decided not to appeal the ATB’s other findings. If we are unsuccessful in an appeal of the ATB Order, we could be required to make additional tax payments for GATE’s taxable years ended June 30, 2008 and 2009, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity position. We have accrued a total income tax liability of $25.2 million, including interest, as of June 30, 2013 related to the 2008 and 2009 tax returns for GATE, which amount was included in income taxes payable on our consolidated balance sheet. On June 29, 2013, the Massachusetts Department of Revenue delivered a notice of intent to assess for our taxable years ended June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2009. This assessment included approximately $822 thousand of additional tax liability and an assessment for penalties of $4.1 million. We have accrued for the additional tax liability, including interest, as of June 30, 2013 but have not accrued for the penalties as we believe that it is more likely than not that the penalties will ultimately be abated, which is consistent with the treatment of our taxable years ended June 30, 2004, 2005 and 2006. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter or the timing of such payments, if any, at this time. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Fiscal Years ended June 30, 2013, June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011—Overall Results—Continuing Operations—Internal Revenue Service Audit” included in Item 7 of this annual report, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” and Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies—Income Tax Matters,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional information on these matters. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary materially from those reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements include a number of estimates, which reflect management’s judgments. Some of our estimates also rely on certain assumptions. The most significant estimates we make 29 Table of Contents include the determination of which securitization trusts to consolidate, income taxes relating to uncertain tax positions under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 740, Income Taxes, or ASC 740, the valuation of our service revenue receivables and deposits for participation accounts and our determination of goodwill and intangible asset impairment. In our determination of the fair value of our service revenue receivables and deposits for participation accounts, we use discounted cash flow modeling techniques and certain assumptions to estimate fair value because there are no quoted market prices. Our key assumptions to estimate fair value include, as applicable: • Discount rates, which we use to estimate the present value of our future cash flows; • The annual rate and timing of education loan prepayments; • The trend of interest rates over the life of the loan pool, including the forward LIBOR curve, which is a projection of future LIBOR rates over time; • The expected annual rate and timing of education loan defaults, including the effects of various risk mitigation strategies, such as basic forbearance and alternative payment plans and school and lender guarantees; • The expected amount and timing of recoveries on defaulted education loans; and • The fees and expenses of the securitization trusts. Because our estimates rely on quantitative and qualitative factors, including our historical experience, to predict default, recovery and prepayment rates, management’s ability to determine which factors should be more heavily weighted in our estimates, and to accurately incorporate those factors into our loan performance assumptions, are subjective and can have a material effect on valuations. If the actual performance of the education loan portfolios held by us or our clients who hold Monogram-based loans were to vary appreciably from the assumptions we use, we might need to adjust our key assumptions. Such an adjustment could materially affect our earnings in the period in which our assumptions change. In addition, our actual service revenue receivables or releases from participation accounts could be significantly less than reflected in our current consolidated financial statements. In particular, economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors affecting the key assumptions used in the cash flow model could cause or contribute to differences between actual performance of the portfolios and our other key assumptions. We have guaranteed the performance of Union Federal’s obligations under a loan purchase and sale agreement and have agreed to provide an indemnity for third-party claims on behalf of Union Federal under an indenture. We may incur substantial costs if we have to perform obligations of Union Federal or indemnify third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. In connection with Union Federal’s sale of an education loan portfolio in October 2009, FMD delivered a performance guaranty to the purchaser of the loan portfolio. See Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies—Performance Guaranty,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional information. If Union Federal were to default in the performance of any of its obligations or agreements under the loan purchase and sale agreement, including its indemnification or loan repurchase obligations, FMD would be required to perform such obligations. As a result, we could incur substantial costs pursuant to the performance guaranty if Union Federal were unable to perform its obligations. In April 2010, FMD and certain of its subsidiaries entered into agreements relating to the restructuring of the education loan warehouse facility of FMD’s indirect subsidiary UFSB Private Loan SPV, LLC, or UFSB-SPV. In connection with the restructuring, FMD agreed, among other things, to provide a separate indemnity for third-party claims by or on behalf of borrowers against the third-party conduit lender under the facility based on loan origination errors under the facility. See Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies—Indemnifications—Union Federal,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for 30 Table of Contents additional information. As a result, we may incur substantial costs in the event of a claim for damages related to the facility, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity or financial condition. Changes in macro-economic conditions, including interest rates, could affect the value of our additional structural advisory fees, residual receivables, participation accounts and investments available-for-sale, as well as demand for education loans and our services. Education loans held by us and the securitization trusts facilitated by us typically carry floating interest rates tied to prevailing short-term interest rates. Changes in interest rates could have the following effects on us: • Higher interest rates would increase the cost of the loan to the borrower, which, in turn, could cause an increase in delinquency and default rates for outstanding education loans, as well as increased use of forbearance programs; • Higher interest rates, or the perception that interest rates could increase in the future, could cause an increase in full or partial prepayments; or • Higher interest rates could reduce borrowing for education generally, which, in turn, could cause the overall demand for our services to decline. In addition to higher interest rates, other factors, such as challenging economic times, including high unemployment rates, can also lead to an increase in delinquency and default rates. If the prepayment or default rates increase for the education loans held by us or our Monogram platform clients, we may experience a decline in the value of service revenue receivables and our participation accounts, as well as a decline in fees related to Monogram-based loan programs in the future, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock and could also prevent, or make more challenging, any future portfolio funding transactions. Economic conditions and interest rate risk could also adversely impact the fair value and the ultimate collectability of our investments available-for-sale. Changes in the fair value of investments available-for-sale are recorded as unrealized gains and losses through other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders’ equity. Should an investment be deemed “other than temporarily impaired,” we would be required to write down the carrying value of the investment through earnings. Such write down(s) may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If sufficient funds to finance our business and meet our obligations are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, we may be required to delay, scale back, otherwise alter our strategy or cease operations. We have generated significant net losses since fiscal 2008, and we cannot predict at this time when or if we will return to profitability. Furthermore, while we have made progress towards reducing our overall cash needs, we continue to utilize significant levels of cash to fund the many priorities required of a diverse business such as ours. We may require additional funds for our products, operating expenses, including expenditures relating to TMS and Cology LLC, capital in connection with credit enhancement arrangements for Monogram-based loan programs or capital markets financings, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs primarily through fees earned from education loan asset-backed securitizations. We have not accessed the securitization market since fiscal 2008, and the securitization market may not be accessible to us in the future or, if available, not on terms that are acceptable to us. We have also satisfied our funding needs through equity financings. We cannot be certain that additional public or private financing would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Although we believe that our capital resources as of June 30, 2013, which include proceeds of tax refunds under audit, are sufficient to satisfy our operating needs for the succeeding 12 months, we cannot assure you that they will be sufficient, particularly in light of ongoing federal and state income tax audits. In particular, as we announced on August 15, 2013, as part of the audit process, we expected to receive a NOPA from the IRS. On September 10, 2013 we received two NOPAs from the IRS that contain the proposed adjustments that we announced on August 15, 2013. The NOPAs propose to disallow the loss that generated the tax refunds that we 31 Table of Contents previously received as well as require us to include income from the Trust Certificate from the March 31, 2009 sale date through June 30, 2011 in our taxable income for such years. If the IRS’ positions are successful, the disallowance of the loss, coupled with the additional taxable income after the sale date through June 30, 2011, would create federal income tax adjustments that we estimate to be approximately $300.0 million plus interest, with the interest continuing to accrue until the matter is resolved. The NOPAs do not address tax years beyond June 30, 2011. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Fiscal Years ended June 30, 2013, June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011—Overall Results—Continuing Operations—Internal Revenue Service Audit” included in Item 7 of this annual report for additional information. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our products, eliminate our ability to provide credit enhancement commitments to prospective clients relating to Monogram-based loan programs, curtail, delay or terminate plans for TMS or Cology LLC, terminate personnel, further scale back our expenses or cease operations. In addition, our short-term financing needs are subject to regulatory capital requirements related to Union Federal. See Note 25, “Union Federal Regulatory Matters,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional information. A significant portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of TMS and our acquisition of a substantial portion of the operating assets of the Cology Sellers is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to periodic impairment evaluations. An impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At June 30, 2013, we had $20.1 million of goodwill and $24.1 million of intangible assets related to our acquisition of TMS and our acquisition of a substantial portion of the operating assets of the Cology Sellers. As required by current accounting standards, we review intangible assets for impairment either annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The risk of impairment to goodwill is higher during the early years following an acquisition. This is because the fair values of these assets align very closely with what we paid to acquire the reporting units to which these assets are assigned. As a result, the difference between the carrying value of the reporting unit and its fair value (typically referred to as “headroom”) is smaller at the time of acquisition. Until this headroom grows over time, due to business growth or lower carrying value of the reporting unit, a relatively small decrease in reporting unit fair value can trigger impairment charges. When impairment charges are triggered, they tend to be material due to the size of the assets involved. TMS’ business would be adversely affected, and impairment of goodwill could be triggered, if any of the following were to occur: higher attrition rates than planned as a result of the competitive environment or our inability to provide products and services that are competitive in the marketplace, lower-than-planned adoption rates of refund management and Student Account Center products, higher-than-expected expense levels to provide services to TMS clients, a lower interest rate environment than depicted by the LIBOR curve, shorter hold periods or lower cash balances than contemplated, which would reduce overall net interest income opportunity for cash that is held by us on behalf of TMS’ school clients, increases in equity returns required by investors and changes in our business model that may impact one or more of these variables. Cology LLC’s business would be adversely affected, and impairment of goodwill could be triggered, if any of the following were to occur: higher attrition rates than planned, a lack of acceptance of Monogram products and services by its credit union clients, higher-than-expected expense levels to provide services to Cology LLC clients and changes in our business model that may impact one or more of these variables. We may be required to consolidate and deconsolidate VIEs in the future, which would result in significant changes to the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and may result in increased volatility in our reported financial condition and results of operations. Effective July 1, 2010, we adopted Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2009-16, Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860)—Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, or ASU2009-16, and ASU 2009-17, Consolidation (Topic 810)—Improvement to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved With Variable Interest Entities, or ASU 2009-17, which amended the accounting for consolidation of variable interest entities, or VIEs. 32 Table of Contents We are required to continually reassess our involvement with each VIE in which we have an interest, both on- and off-balance sheet, and our determination of whether consolidation or deconsolidation of a VIE is appropriate. ASU 2009-17 requires us to make additional judgments that are subject to change based on new facts and circumstances, and evolving interpretations and practices. Under ASU 2009-17, the determination of whether to consolidate a VIE is based on whether the company is considered to be the primary beneficiary. Such determination is based on both the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be significant to the entity. The nature of these determinations, made on an entity-by-entity basis, requires a high level of subjectivity and judgment. As a result, determinations that we make from time to time will be susceptible to change. The accounting for these matters is complex. Changes in circumstances or technical interpretations of ASU 2009-17 could result in additional consolidation or deconsolidation of VIEs, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements and make analysis of our financial standing difficult. As we continue to execute our business model, we may be required to consolidate future financing transactions in accordance with ASU 2009-17. We continue to monitor our involvement with nine off-balance sheet VIEs for which we have determined that we are not the primary beneficiary due to the sole, unilateral rights of other parties to terminate us in our role as service provider or due to a lack of obligation on our part to absorb benefits or losses of the VIE that would be significant to that VIE. A significant change to the pertinent rights of other parties or us, or a significant change to the range of possible financial performance outcomes used in our assessment of the variability of cash flows due to us, could cause us to change our determination of whether or not a VIE should be consolidated in future periods. Given the size of each of our VIEs, any decision to consolidate or deconsolidate a VIE could result in significant changes to our reported assets and liabilities and results of operations during the fiscal quarter in which the change occurs and could make comparisons of our financial performance between periods challenging to investors. For example, in fiscal 2011, we consolidated certain securitization trusts that were subsequently deconsolidated in fiscal 2012. See Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for additional information. Risks Related to Asset-Backed Securitizations and Other Funding Sources Our financial results and future growth may continue to be adversely affected if we are unable to structure securitizations or alternative financings. Although our Monogram platform has been designed to generate recurring revenues with less dependence on the securitization market and third-party credit enhancement than our prior business model, a return to profitability is dependent on a number of factors, including the facilitation of loan volumes substantially in excess of those that we have originated to date, and substantially in excess of those contemplated by our four lender clients’ Monogram-based loan programs or other financing alternatives, expense management and growth at TMS, Cology LLC and Union Federal. Accordingly, our future financial results and growth may continue to be affected by our inability to structure securitizations or alternative financing transactions involving education loans on terms acceptable to us. In particular, such transactions may enable us to generate fee revenues or access and recycle capital previously deployed as credit enhancement for interim financing facilities. If we are able to facilitate securitizations in the near-term, we expect the structure and economics of the transactions to be substantially different from our past transactions, including lower revenues and lower advance rates. If our inability to access the ABS market on acceptable terms continues, our revenues may continue to be adversely impacted, and we may continue to generate net losses, which would further erode our liquidity position. A number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, have adversely affected or may adversely affect our portfolio funding activities and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. 33 Table of Contents The success of our business may depend on our ability to structure securitizations or other funding transactions for our clients’ loan portfolios. Several factors have had, or may have, a material adverse effect on both our ability to structure funding transactions and the revenue we may generate for providing our structural advisory and other services, including the following: • Volatility in the capital markets generally or in the education loan ABS sector specifically, which could restrict or delay our access to the capital markets; • The timing and size of education loan asset-backed securitizations that other parties facilitate, or the adverse performance of, or other problems with, such securitizations, which could impact pricing or demand for our future securitizations, if any; • Challenges to the enforceability of education loans based on violations of federal or state consumer protection or licensing laws and related regulations, or imposition of penalties or liabilities on assignees of education loans for violation of such laws and regulations; • Our inability to structure and gain market acceptance for new products or services to meet new demands of ABS investors, rating agencies or credit facility providers; and • Changes to bankruptcy laws that change the current non-dischargeable status of private education loans, which could materially adversely affect the profitability of the loan portfolios if applied to loans originated prior to the date of the change. Recent legislation will affect the terms of future securitization transactions. The SEC has proposed new rules governing ABS issuance that, due to the requirements for risk retention, may affect the desirability of issuing ABS as a funding strategy. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act grants federal banking regulators substantial discretion in developing specific risk retention requirements for all types of consumer credit products and requires the SEC to establish new data requirements for all issuers, including standards for data format, asset-level or loan-level data, the nature and extent of the compensation of the broker or originator and the amount of risk retention required by loan securitizers. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, once adopted, will affect the terms of future securitization transactions, if any, that we facilitate and may result in greater risk retention and less flexibility for us in structuring such transactions. In structuring and facilitating securitizations of our clients’ education loans, administering securitization trusts or providing portfolio management, we may incur liabilities to transaction parties. We facilitated and structured a number of special purpose trusts that have been used in securitizations to finance education loans that our clients originated, including securitization trusts that have issued auction rate notes. Under applicable state and federal securities laws, if investors incur losses as a result of purchasing ABS that those securitization trusts have issued, we could be deemed responsible and could be liable to those investors for damages. We could also be liable to investors or other parties for certain updated information that we have provided subsequent to the original ABS issuances by the trusts. If we have failed to cause the securitization trusts or other transaction parties to disclose adequately all material information regarding an investment in any securities, if we or the trusts made statements that were misleading in any material respect in information delivered to investors in any securities or if we breached any duties as the structuring advisor, administrator or special servicer of the securitization trusts, it is possible that we could be sued and ultimately held liable to an investor or other transaction party. This risk includes failure to properly administer or oversee servicing or collections guidelines and may increase if the performance of the securitization trusts’ loan portfolios degrades, and rating agencies over the past several years have downgraded various ABS issued by the trusts we facilitated. Investigations by state Attorneys General, as well as private litigation, have focused on auction rate securities, including the marketing and trading of such securities. It is possible that we could become involved in such matters in the future. In addition, under various agreements entered into with underwriters or financial guaranty insurers of those ABS, as well as certain lenders, we are contractually bound to indemnify those persons if an 34 Table of Contents investor is successful in seeking to recover any loss from those parties and the securitization trusts are found to have made a materially misleading statement or to have omitted material information. If we are liable to an investor or other transaction party for a loss incurred in any of the securitizations that we have facilitated or structured and any insurance that we may have does not cover this liability or proves to be insufficient, our results of operations or financial position could be materially adversely affected. We may determine to incur near-term losses based on longer-term strategic considerations. We may consider long-term strategic considerations more important than near-term economic gains when assessing business arrangements and opportunities, including financing arrangements for education loans. For example, we expect the structure and pricing terms in near-term future securitization transactions, if any, to be substantially different from our past transactions, including lower revenues and lower advance rates. We may nevertheless determine to participate in, or structure, future financing transactions based on longer-term strategic considerations. As a result, net cash flows over the life of a future securitization trust, particularly any trust that we may facilitate in the near-term as we re-enter the securitization market, could be negative as a result of transaction size, transaction expenses or financing costs. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters We are subject to, or will become subject to, new supervision and regulations which could increase our costs of compliance and alter our business practices. Various regulators have increased diligence and enforcement efforts and new laws and regulations have been passed or are under consideration in the U.S. Congress as a result of turbulence in the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and the federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations. Consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. As a federal savings bank, Union Federal’s primary bank regulator is the OCC. As a thrift holding company, FMD is regulated by the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies, but these requirements are not effective until five years after enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB as an independent agency within the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has been given broad powers, including the power to: • Supervise non-depository institutions, including those that offer or provide education loans; • Supervise depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more for compliance with consumer protection laws, as well as the service providers to such institutions; • Regulate consumer financial products, including education loans, and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes; • Promulgate rules with respect to unfair, deceptive or abusive practices; and • Take enforcement action against institutions under its supervision. The CFPB may institute regulatory measures that directly impact our business operations. The CFPB has initiated an examination program of non-depository institutions (which could include service providers such as FMER). The FTC maintains parallel authority to enforce Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices against non-depository financial providers, such as FMER, TMS and Cology LLC. The OCC maintains parallel authority to enforce Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act against federal savings associations, such as Union Federal, as well as authority to examine and supervise federal savings associations with assets of less than $10 billion, such as Union Federal, for compliance with consumer protection laws. 35 Table of Contents The CFPB has significant rulemaking and enforcement powers and the potential reach of the CFPB’s broad new rulemaking powers and enforcement authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services, including FMD, is currently unknown. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established a Student Loan Ombudsman within the CFPB, who, among other things, receives, reviews and attempts to resolve informally complaints from education loan borrowers. To date, the Student Loan Ombudsman has only issued the Report, which noted concerns that private education loan borrowers may not have fully understood all the terms and conditions of their different loans. As a result, we expect private education loan marketing practices to be carefully scrutinized. The CFPB’s initiatives and similar efforts with respect to other credit and retail banking products, could increase our costs and the complexity of our operations. See “Business—Government Regulation” included in Item 1 of this annual report for additional information. The Dodd-Frank Act also includes several provisions that could affect our future portfolio funding transactions, if any, including potential risk retention requirements applicable to any entity that organizes and initiates an ABS transaction, new disclosure and reporting requirements for each tranche of ABS, including new loan-level data requirements, and new disclosure requirements relating to the representations, warranties and enforcement mechanisms available to ABS investors. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, including through increased operating and compliance costs. We are subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and Union Federal is regulated extensively. We could incur additional costs in complying with regulations applicable to savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. As a result of our acquisition of Union Federal in November 2006, we became subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and our business is limited to activities that are financial or real-estate related. FMD is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve and the OCC each have certain types of enforcement authority over us, including the ability in certain circumstances to review and approve changes in management and compensation arrangements, issue cease-and-desist orders, force divestiture of Union Federal and impose civil and monetary penalties for violations of federal banking laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Any such actions could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity or ability to execute our business plan. In addition, we could incur additional costs in complying with differing interpretations by these new regulators, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. Union Federal is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including activities and investments, lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capitalization, risk management policies and procedures, relationships with affiliated companies, efforts to combat money laundering, recordkeeping and conduct and qualifications of personnel. In particular, the failure to meet minimum capital requirements could result in initiation of certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our consolidated financial statements. We have in the past been required to make capital contributions to Union Federal, and regulatory authorities could require us to make additional capital contributions or to take other corrective measures in the future. We could incur additional costs in complying with regulations applicable to savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules depends largely on our establishment and maintenance of a system to ensure such compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Further reductions in staffing levels could make it difficult to retain experienced personnel to maintain adequate internal controls related to regulatory matters. If severe failures in internal controls occur, regulatory authorities could impose sanctions on Union Federal or us. We could in the future be subject to supervisory orders to cease and desist, civil monetary penalties or other actions due to claimed noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 36 Table of Contents We may become subject to additional state registration or licensing requirements, which could increase our compliance costs significantly and may result in other adverse consequences. Many states have statutes and regulations that require the licensure of small loan lenders, loan brokers, credit services organizations, loan arrangers and collection agencies. Some of these statutes are drafted or interpreted to cover a broad scope of activities. While we believe we have satisfied all material licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements that could be applicable to us based on current laws and the manner in which we currently conduct business, we may determine that we need to submit additional license applications, and we may otherwise become subject to additional state licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements in the future. In particular, certain state licenses or registrations may be required if we change our operations, if regulators reconsider their prior guidance or if federal or state laws or regulations are changed. Even if we are not physically present in a state, its regulators may take the position that registration or licensing is required because we provide services to borrowers located in the state by mail, telephone, the Internet or other remote means. To the extent that our services are conducted through Union Federal, state requirements for licensure are inapplicable. However, as a result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the reduced preemption enjoyed by federal savings banks resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, we may now be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. We will continue to review state registration and licensing requirements, and we intend to pursue registration or licensing in applicable jurisdictions where we are not currently registered or licensed if we elect to operate through an entity that does not enjoy federal preemption of such registration or licensing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining additional state licenses or registrations in a timely manner, or at all. If we determine that additional state registrations or licenses are necessary, we may be required to delay or restructure our activities in a manner that will not subject us to such licensing or registration requirements. Compliance with state licensing requirements could involve additional costs or delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to, among other things: • Curtailment of our ability to continue to conduct business in the relevant jurisdiction, pending a return to compliance or processing of registration or a license application; • Administrative enforcement actions; • Class action lawsuits; • The assertion of legal defenses delaying or otherwise affecting the enforcement of loans; and • Criminal as well as civil liability. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be exposed to liability for failures of third parties with which we do business to comply with the registration, licensing and other requirements that apply to them. Third parties with which we do, or have done, business, including federal and state chartered financial institutions and non-bank loan marketers, are subject to registration, licensing and governmental regulations, including TILA and other consumer protection laws and regulations. For example, some of the third-party marketers with which we have done or may do business may be subject to state registration or licensing requirements and laws and regulations, including those relating to loan brokers, small loan lenders, credit services organizations, loan arrangers and collection agencies. As a result of the activities that we conduct or may conduct for our clients, it may be asserted that we have some responsibility for compliance by third parties with whom we do business with the laws and regulations applicable to them, whether on contractual or other grounds. If it is determined that we have failed to comply with our obligations with respect to these third parties, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability. Even if we bear no legal liability for the actions of these third parties, the imposition of licensing and registration requirements on them, or any sanctions against them for conducting business without a license or registration, may reduce the volume of loans we process from them in the future. 37 Table of Contents Failure to comply with consumer protection laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or litigation, including class actions, and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to a broad range of federal and state consumer protection laws applicable to our student lending, mortgage lending and other retail banking activities, including laws governing fair lending, unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices, service member protections, interest rates and loan fees, disclosures of loan terms, marketing, brokering, servicing, collections and foreclosure. Violations or changes in federal or state consumer protection laws or related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, may expose us to litigation, result in greater compliance costs, constrain the marketing of education loans, adversely affect the collection of balances due on the loan assets held by securitization trusts or otherwise adversely affect our business. We could incur substantial additional expense complying with these requirements and may be required to create new processes and information systems. Moreover, changes in federal or state consumer protection laws and related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, could invalidate or call into question the legality of certain of our services and business practices. Violations of the laws or regulations governing our operations, or the operations of our clients, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services or our exclusion from participating in education loan programs. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would impair our business reputation and ability to operate our business. In some cases, such violations may render the loan assets unenforceable. Recent legislative proposals could affect the non-dischargeability of education loans in bankruptcy. If the legislative proposals are enacted, it could adversely affect the loan portfolios under our Monogram platform, including loans for which we have provided credit enhancements with our partnered lenders, and adversely affect the overall desirability of private education loan assets to investors. Under current law, education loans can be discharged in bankruptcy only upon a court finding of “undue hardship” if the borrower were required to continue to make loan payments. Legislation has been introduced in both houses of Congress that would generally end the bankruptcy exemption from dischargeability for certain private education loans. If enacted as initially proposed, this legislation would apply retroactively to private education loans already made, and would not require the borrower to make any payments before seeking discharge in bankruptcy. This legislation is substantially similar to legislation that was introduced in both houses of Congress in the last Congress. If enacted in this Congress, such legislation may adversely affect the performance of the education loans under our Monogram platform, restrict the availability of capital to fund education loans and increase loan pricing to borrowers to compensate for the additional risk of bankruptcy discharge, which could adversely affect the competitiveness of our Monogram platform and our ability to engage lenders to fund loans based on our Monogram platform. In addition, the July 2012 report on private education lending released by the CFPB recommended that the U.S. Congress reconsider the advisability of continuing the current non-dischargeable status of private education loans. Recent litigation has sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders; if litigation on similar theories were successful against us or any third-party marketer we work with, the education loans that we facilitate would be subject to individual state consumer protection laws. A majority of the lenders with which we work are federally-insured banks and credit unions. As a result, they are able to charge the interest rates, fees and other charges available to the most favored lender in their home state. In addition, our lender clients or prospective lender clients may be chartered by the federal government and enjoy preemption from enforcement of state consumer protection laws. In providing our education loan services to our lender clients, we do not act as a lender, guarantor or loan servicer, and the terms of the education loans that we facilitate are regulated in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the lenders. The association between marketers of high-interest “payday” loans, tax-return anticipation loans, or subprime credit cards, and online payment services, on the one hand, and banks, on the other hand, has come 38 Table of Contents under recent scrutiny. Recent litigation asserts that loan marketers use lenders with a bank charter that authorizes the lender to charge the most favored interest rate available in the lender’s home state in order to evade usury and interest rate caps, and other consumer protection laws imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought, successfully in some instances, to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. Moreover, federal banking regulators and the FTC have undertaken enforcement actions challenging the activities of certain loan marketers and their bank partners, particularly in the context of subprime credit cards. We believe that our activities, and the activities of third parties whose marketing on behalf of lenders may be coordinated by us, are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the education loans we facilitate if we, or any third-party loan marketer engaged by us, were re-characterized as a lender, and the education loans (or the provisions governing interest rates, fees and other charges) could be unenforceable unless we or a third-party loan marketer had the requisite licenses or other authority to make such loans. In addition, we could be subject to claims by consumers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial delay or cost to us. There have been no actions taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending; however, if such actions occurred, they could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in your shares of our common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: • The success of our Monogram platform, our fee-for-service offerings, our TMS offerings and our Cology LLC offerings; • Announcements by us, our competitors or our potential competitors of acquisitions, new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital markets activities; • Actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts, including as a result of the timing, size or structure of any portfolio funding transactions; • Developments or the perception of developments in litigation or proceedings in which we are involved, including any challenges to tax refunds previously received in the amounts of $176.6 million and $45.1 million as a result of the ongoing IRS audit of our past tax returns, including as a result of the NOPAs we received on September 10, 2013, the resolution of our appeal of the ATB Order in the cases pertaining to our Massachusetts state income tax return and the purported class action filed against FMD and certain of our officers in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts in August 2013; • Difficulties we may encounter in structuring securitizations or alternative financings, including disruptions in the education loan ABS market or demand for securities offered by securitization trusts that we facilitate, or the loss of opportunities to structure securitization transactions; • General economic conditions and trends, including unemployment rates and economic pressure on consumer asset classes such as education loans; • Legislative initiatives affecting federal or private education loans, including initiatives relating to bankruptcy dischargeability and the federal budget and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act; 39 Table of Contents • Changes in the education finance marketplace generally; • Negative publicity about the education loan market generally or us specifically; • Regulatory developments or sanctions directed at Union Federal or us; • Application of accounting policies and pronouncements, and their effects on our reported financial condition and results of operations, including future determinations under ASU 2009-17 to consolidate or deconsolidate VIEs; • Price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market and volatility in the ABS market, from time to time; • Delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, for failure to comply with NYSE continued listing standards, including without limitation, the NYSE’s average closing price standard; • Significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services and process outsourcing companies; • Major catastrophic events; • Purchases or sales of large blocks of our common stock or other strategic investments involving us; • Dilution from raising capital through a stock or other equity instrument issuance; or • Departures or long-term unavailability of key personnel, including FMD’s Chief Executive Officer, who we believe has unique insights and experience at this point of change in our business and the education loan industry. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. In August 2013, a purported class action was filed against us and certain of our current officers in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The plaintiff alleges, among other things, that the defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to disclose material information in various SEC filings, press releases and other public statements concerning our corporate income tax filings. The complaint alleges various claims under the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. The complaint seeks, among other relief, class certification, unspecified damages, fees and such other relief as the court may deem just and proper. No class has been certified in the action. We intend to vigorously assert our defenses, however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful, and regardless of the merits of our defenses, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected by a perception of risk in connection with this lawsuit, including any such perception that may arise out of any developments adverse to us with respect to this lawsuit. In addition, adverse developments and/or an adverse resolution of the lawsuit could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations, which could, in turn, have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Although we carry insurance for these types of claims, we are not presently able to reasonably estimate potential losses, if any, related to the lawsuit and a judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Stockholders that own large blocks of our common stock could exercise substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. There are certain investors that hold large blocks of our common stock, which could impact the outcome of key transactions. In addition, our directors and executive officers owned approximately 8.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of June 30, 2013, excluding shares issuable upon vesting of outstanding restricted stock units and shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding vested stock options. These stockholders, if acting together, could substantially influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The 40 Table of Contents concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of the FMD Board of Directors, including the following: • Only the FMD Board of Directors, our Chairman of the Board or our President may call special meetings of our stockholders; • Our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; • We have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • Our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present, or by the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and • We impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 