Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall. Although we have grouped risk factors by category, the categories are not mutually exclusive. Risks described under one category may also apply to another category, and you should carefully read the entire risk factors section, not just any one category of risk factors. Risks Related to Asset-Backed Securitizations and Other Funding Sources We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue and substantially all of our income from structuring securitization transactions; our financial results and future growth may continue to be adversely affected if we are unable to structure securitizations or alternative financings. In the past, we did not charge separate fees for many of our services, but generally entered into agreements with clients giving us the exclusive right to securitize the private education loans that they did not intend to hold. As a result, we have historically derived a significant portion of our revenue and substantially all of our income from structuring securitization transactions. We derived approximately $320.4 million and $684.1 million in revenue from new securitizations in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. We did not complete a securitization during the second, third or fourth quarters of fiscal 2008, or during fiscal 2009, contributing to our net losses for each period. If we are able to facilitate the securitization of loans in the future, we expect the structure and economics of the transactions to be substantially different than our past transactions. We expect lower revenues and additional cash requirements on our part and limited, if any, demand for subordinate tranches of ABS. We have recently changed our fee structure with respect to our services and have developed additional services that are designed to provide us with fee-based income for the services we render. We will need to gain market acceptance of our Monogram loan product, new fee structure and additional services, in order to improve our cash flow and reduce our dependence on the credit and securitization markets. If we continue to be unable to access the ABS market, our revenues may continue to be adversely impacted and we may continue to generate net losses, which would further erode our liquidity position. 16 Table of Contents A number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our securitization activities and thereby adversely affect our results of operations. The success of our business may depend on our ability to structure securitizations or other financing transactions for our clients' loan portfolios. Several factors have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on both our ability to structure financing transactions and the revenue we may generate for providing our structural advisory and other services, including the following: •persistent and prolonged disruption or volatility in the capital markets generally or in the private education loan ABS sector specifically, which could continue to restrict or delay our access to the capital markets; •our inability to structure and gain market acceptance for new products or services to meet new demands of ABS investors; •continuing degradation of the credit quality or performance of the loan portfolios of the trusts we have previously structured, which could reduce or eliminate investor demand for future securitizations that we facilitate, particularly for subordinate classes of ABS, or result in material, adverse modifications in rating agency assumptions, ratings or conclusions with respect to the securitization trusts; •rating agency action, including downgrades, of ABS that we have facilitated in the past or any occurrence of an event of default with respect to such securities, which could reduce demand for additional securitizations that we structure; •developments in connection with the TERI Reorganization, including the outcome of the challenges to the trusts' security interests; •unwillingness of investors to ascribe value to the TERI-guaranteed loan loss reserves or financial guarantees offered by other third parties; •the adequacy of the segregated reserves pledged to each securitization trust as collateral for TERI's guaranty obligations with respect to the loans held by the trust, including the validity and perfection of the trust's security interests and the replenishment of the reserves from recoveries on defaulted loans; •material breach of our obligations to clients, including securitization trusts and former or current lender clients; •the timing and size of private education loan asset-backed securitizations that other parties facilitate, or the adverse performance of, or other problems with, such securitizations, which could impact pricing or demand for our securitizations; •challenges to the enforceability of private education loans based on violations of federal or state consumer protection laws and related regulations, or imposition of penalties or liability on assignees of private education loans for violation of such laws and regulations; and •changes to bankruptcy laws that change the current non-dischargeable status of education-related loans, which could materially adversely affect recovery rates on defaulted loans. We have actually experienced, or are at particular risk of experiencing in the near term, the first seven factors listed above. Capital markets dislocations, and the timing, size and structure of any future capital markets transactions, will greatly affect our quarterly financial results. Continuing dislocations in the capital markets, write-downs of our service receivables and the private education loans held by us and the size, structure or economic terms of our future capital 17 Table of Contents markets transactions, if any, could increase the variability of our operating results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the sale or other disposition of Union Federal's private education loan portfolio could negatively affect our operating results for the quarter in which the transaction occurs. We are uncertain whether the fee structure that we have historically used will be used in any future securitization transaction. We expect the structure and pricing terms in future securitizations, if any, to be substantially less favorable than in the past. Developments in the TERI Reorganization, including the outcome of legal challenges to the trusts' security interests and resulting write-downs in our service receivables, could also contribute to increased variability of our operating results. Finally, our operating results may continue to be affected by the seasonality of education loan applications, which could affect the amount of loan processing fees that we earn in a particular quarter. Origination of education loans is generally subject to seasonal trends, with the volume of loan applications increasing with the approach of tuition payment dates. We may need to pursue alternatives to securitizations, which may not be available or the terms of which may not be attractive. We have been unsuccessful in obtaining alternatives to securitization to finance our clients' loans. Other sources of funding have not been available to us. In addition, we are uncertain as of September 2, 2009 whether it will be feasible or advantageous to participate in TALF. Under the terms of our purchase agreements with lender clients, we generally have an obligation to use our best efforts to facilitate the purchase of a client's loans during a specified loan purchase period. The length of the loan purchase period varies by client and generally ranges from 195 days to 555 days following final loan disbursement. Our purchase agreements applicable to approximately $485.5 million of the facilitated loan volume available for securitization as of June 30, 2009 may be subject to liquidated damages provisions in the event that we fail to facilitate a securitization in breach of our obligations to certain former clients. The payment of liquidated damages and the amount of our potential liability with respect to such loans is dependent, in part, upon the outcome of the TERI Reorganization and is not determinable at this time. If we do not honor our contractual obligations, our value proposition would be compromised and prospective clients may not be interested in entering into business arrangements with us. In addition, our financial results would be adversely affected if we were required to pay damages. In structuring and facilitating securitizations of our clients' loans, administering securitization trusts or as holders of rights to receive residual cash flows in non-NCSLT Trusts, we may incur liabilities to investors in the asset-backed securities those trusts issue. We have facilitated and structured a number of different special purpose trusts that have been used in securitizations to finance private education loans that our clients originate, including trusts that have issued auction rate notes. Under applicable state and federal securities laws, if investors incur losses as a result of purchasing ABS that those trusts issue, we could be deemed responsible and could be liable to those investors for damages. If we failed to cause the trusts or other transaction parties to disclose adequately all material information regarding an investment in the ABS or if the trust made statements that were misleading in any material respect in information delivered to investors, it is possible that we could be held responsible for that information or omission. Recent investigations by state attorneys general, and private litigation, have focused on auction rate securities, including the marketing and trading of such securities. It is possible that we could become involved in such matters in the future. In addition, under various agreements entered into with underwriters or financial guaranty insurers of those ABS, as well as certain lenders, we are contractually bound to indemnify those persons if investors are successful in seeking to recover losses from those parties and the trusts are found to have made materially misleading statements or to have omitted material information. 18 Table of Contents If we are liable for losses investors incur in any of the securitizations that we facilitate or structure and any insurance that we may have does not cover this liability or proves to be insufficient, our profitability or financial position could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Financial Reporting and Liquidity If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary materially from those reflected in our financial statements. Historically, we have received structural advisory fees for our services in connection with securitization transactions. We have received an up-front portion of these structural advisory fees when the securitization trust purchases the loans. We are entitled to receive an additional portion of these structural advisory fees over time, based on the amount of loans outstanding in the trust from time to time over the life of the trust. We also have the right to receive a portion of any residual interests in certain trusts other than the NCSLT Trusts, and asset servicing fees from the NCSLT Trusts for additional services that we are contractually obligated to perform. As required under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP, we recognize as revenue an estimate of the fair value of the additional portion of the structural advisory fees and residuals at the time the securitization trust purchases the loans because these revenues are deemed to be earned before they are actually paid to us. Similarly, we are required under GAAP to recognize asset servicing fees as our services are performed; however, the receipt of the fees is contingent on distributions available to the owners of the residual interests of such trusts. We record additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residuals as receivables on our balance sheet at our estimate of their fair value. Because there are no quoted market prices for our service revenue receivables, we use discounted cash flow modeling techniques and certain assumptions to estimate fair value. We estimate the fair value both initially and in each subsequent quarter and reflect the change in our estimate of fair value in earnings for that period, as well as asset servicing fees earned for the period. Our key assumptions to estimate the fair value include: discount rates; the annual rate and timing of education loan prepayments; the trend of interest rates over the life of the loan pool, including the forward LIBOR curve; the expected annual rate and timing of loan defaults, and TERI's obligation and ability to pay default claims; expected recoveries of defaulted loans, including the use of recoveries to replenish segregated reserve accounts pledged to the securitization trusts by TERI to secure its guaranty obligations, or Pledged Accounts; the source and amount of guaranty payments made on defaulted loans; and the fees and expenses of the securitization trusts. Because our estimates rely on quantitative and qualitative factors, including macroeconomic indicators to predict prepayment, default and recovery rates, management's ability to determine which factors should be more heavily weighted in our estimates, and to accurately incorporate those factors into our estimates, are subjective and can have a material effect on valuations. We have adjusted our key accounting assumptions throughout fiscal 2009: •During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we adjusted our key accounting assumptions, including our assumptions with regard to default and discount rates used in determining the value of our service receivables, which resulted in a $111.7 million pre-tax decrease in the value of those receivables. •During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we further adjusted our key accounting assumptions, including our assumptions with regard to the auction rates and discount rates used in determining the value of our service receivables, which resulted in a $121.2 million pre-tax decrease in the value of those receivables. •During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, after the sale of the Trust Certificate, we further adjusted our key accounting assumptions, including our assumptions with regard to the discount rates and 19 Table of Contents default rates used in determining the value of our service receivables, which resulted in a $6.8 million pre-tax decrease in the value of those receivables. •During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we further adjusted our key accounting assumptions, including our assumptions with regard to the default rates, recoveries assumptions and discount rates used in determining the value of our service receivables, which resulted in a $7.5 million pre-tax decrease in the value of those receivables. In general, our adjustments during fiscal 2009 were necessary because securitization trusts had performed below our range of expectations, including with regard to delinquencies and defaults, dislocations in the capital markets that began in the second quarter of fiscal 2008 persisted through June 30, 2009 requiring significant adjustments to our discount rate, TERI's ability to pay claims is uncertain as a result of the TERI Reorganization, and the estimated cost of funding auction rate notes issued by several securitization trusts was projected to be higher than previously estimated. For a discussion of these changes and the sensitivity of the additional structural advisory fees and residuals to variations in our assumptions and estimates, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Executive Summary—Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates." We also made adjustments to certain key assumptions during fiscal 2008. If the actual performance of some or all of the securitization trusts were to vary appreciably from the adjusted assumptions we use, we may need to adjust further our key assumptions, which could materially affect our earnings in the period in which our assumptions change, and the actual additional structural advisory fees and residuals that we receive from the trusts and the actual asset servicing fees that we receive from the owner of the Trust Certificate, could be significantly less than reflected in our current financial statements. In addition, our securitization yields, or our structural advisory fees and residuals from a new securitization transaction expressed as a percentage of the total principal and accrued interest securitized, realized on future securitized transactions could decrease if the actual performance of some or all of the securitization trusts varies from the key assumptions we have historically used. In particular, economic, regulatory, competitive and other factors affecting prepayment, default and recovery rates on the underlying securitized loan portfolio, including full or partial prepayments, could cause or contribute to differences between the actual performance of the securitization trusts and our key assumptions. In addition, developments in the TERI Reorganization, including challenges to the trusts' security interests in collateral securing TERI's guaranty obligations or TERI's rejection of its guaranty agreements could cause us to adjust further our key assumptions. As of September 2, 2009, TERI had not rejected its guaranty obligations, although we expect TERI to do so in connection with its plan of reorganization. For purposes of estimating the fair value of our service receivables, we assumed at June 30, 2009 that the application of collateral will occur in accordance with existing agreements. The official committee of unsecured creditors, or Creditors Committee, is challenging the enforceability of certain trusts' security interests, which may result in a significant reduction of collateral available to the trusts. Finally, continuing dislocations in the capital markets have resulted in increased volatility in investors' yield requirements for ABS. If such conditions degrade, we may need to further adjust our key assumptions. We have no further obligation to support the obligations within the bankruptcy-remote securitization trusts with respect to our additional structural advisory fees or residuals in the securitizations we have facilitated. However, our fees are subordinate to securities issued to investors in such securitizations, and the trusts may fail to generate any cash flow for us if the securitized assets do not generate enough cash flow to pay debt holders in full or only generate enough cash flow to pay the debt holders. Our projected cash flows from service receivables from certain securitization trusts are expected to be eliminated entirely, and our projected cash flows from other securitization trusts could be impaired or eliminated, if default rates increase beyond our assumptions at June 30, 2009. We expect as of June 30, 2009 to receive additional structural advisory fees and residuals beginning five to 20 Table of Contents 22 years after the date of a particular securitization transaction. At March 31, 2009, we expected to receive such cash flows beginning five to 17 years after the date of a particular securitization. Our loans held for sale at June 30, 2009 consisted of $351.0 million in private education loans originated by Union Federal, $183.9 million of which remain on the balance sheet of Union Federal. Our loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of loans held for sale is evaluated on a periodic basis. In the absence of readily determined market values, the fair value is estimated by management based on the present value of expected future cash flow from the loans held for sale. Under GAAP, we are required to reduce the carrying value of our private education loans if their fair value decreases below our cost. In such an event, we are required to write-down the carrying value of our private education loans, which would result in an increase in our non-interest expenses, and we may be required to provide additional regulatory capital to Union Federal. We recorded a valuation adjustment of approximately $138.2 million in fiscal 2009, and we may be required to make additional adjustments in the future. Our liquidity could be adversely affected if the sale of the Trust Certificate does not result in the tax consequences that we expect. Effective March 31, 2009, we completed the sale of the Trust Certificate, representing our ownership interest in NC Residuals Owners Trust, in a transaction intended to improve our financial condition and liquidity. The sale of the Trust Certificate is expected to generate a cash refund for income taxes previously paid, as we have been required to pay income taxes on the expected residual cash flows from the NCSLT Trusts in excess of what we have actually received. In addition, we estimate that we would have been required to pay approximately $430 million in additional taxes over the remaining life of these residuals, with approximately $370 million to be paid prior to the residuals generating sufficient annual cash flows to offset the tax payments. As a result of the transaction, we expect to eliminate any tax obligations from these residuals. The U.S. federal and state income tax consequences are complex and uncertain. The Internal Revenue Service or a state taxing authority could challenge our tax positions in connection with the transactions, even after we receive any tax refunds. If such a challenge were successful, in whole or in part, we may not receive or keep a refund for taxes previously paid, or we may not eliminate our tax obligations relating to the residuals. In either case, our near-term financial condition and liquidity would be materially adversely affected. In addition, any investigation, audit or suit relating to the sale, including any such proceeding brought by the Internal Revenue Service, could result in substantial costs. Changes in interest rates could affect the value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residuals receivable, as well as demand for private education loans and our services. Private education loans typically carry floating interest rates tied to prevailing short-term interest rates. Higher interest rates would increase the cost of the loan to the borrower, which in turn, could cause an increase in default rates for outstanding education loans. In addition, higher interest rates, or the perception that interest rates could increase in the future, could cause an increase in prepayments, including full or partial prepayments. If the prepayment or default rates increase for the education loans held by the securitization trusts, we may experience a decline in the value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residuals receivables, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock and could cause future securitization transactions to be less profitable for us. In addition, an increase in interest rates could reduce borrowing for education generally, which, in turn, could cause the overall demand for our services to decline. LIBOR is the underlying rate for most of the trusts' assets and liabilities and changes in LIBOR can have a significant effect on the cash flows generated by each trust. Changes in the forward LIBOR curve affect the principal balances of education loans held by the trusts, particularly as interest is capitalized during loan deferment, which affects the net interest margin that the trust generates. In 21 Table of Contents addition, certain trusts have issued a tranche of ABS that bears a fixed interest rate. A decrease in the forward LIBOR curve may result in a reduced spread on the fixed-interest tranche, which in turn decreases the estimated fair value of our service receivables. Significant changes to the forward LIBOR curve can also affect the estimated fair value of our additional structural advisory fees and asset servicing fees, which bear interest at the rate of LIBOR plus a spread to the extent such fees are accrued but unpaid by the trusts. If sufficient funds to finance our business, including Union Federal, are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, then we may be required to delay, scale back or alter our strategy. We may require additional funds for our products, our operating expenses, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs primarily through private education loan asset-backed securitizations. The securitization market has not been available to us and may not be available to us when needed in the future, and, if available, the terms may not be acceptable to us. We have also satisfied our funding needs through equity financings. We cannot be certain that additional public or private financing would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We also cannot assure you that our capital resources as of June 30, 2009 will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs or capital funding requirements after fiscal 2010, particularly in the event of a prolonged dislocation in the private education loan ABS market or our failure to obtain a tax refund as a result of our sale of the Trust Certificate. Our short-term financing needs are subject to regulatory capital requirements related to Union Federal, including the requirement imposed by the Supervisory Agreement that FMC maintain Union Federal's regulatory capital ratios at specified levels. See Note 23, "Subsequent Events—Supervisory Agreement and Order to Cease and Desist," in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this annual report for additional details. Our short-term financing needs are also subject to amounts that we may determine to be necessary or appropriate to contribute to prospective clients to fund portfolio reserves related to new programs. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our products and further scale back our expenses. Our assumptions regarding the future cost of funding of auction rate notes affect the valuation of our service receivables. We have facilitated five trusts that have issued auction rate notes to finance, in whole or in part, the purchase of private education loans. Interest rates for the auction rate notes are determined from time to time at auctions. We use a spread over one-month LIBOR to project the future cost of funding of the auction rate notes issued by each such trust in determining the value of our service receivables. Prior to the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the spread over one-month LIBOR that we used to estimate the future cost of funding was based on historical trends, then current auction rates for each trust and assumptions for future auction rates. During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, material deterioration of the debt capital markets resulted in actual auction rates that trended significantly higher than the rates we had assumed in the past. We also concluded that the higher actual auction rates would persist, resulting in a greater spread over LIBOR, for a longer period of time than we had previously estimated. Our assumption with regard to future auction rates, like our other key valuation assumptions, requires our subjective judgment and is susceptible to change. The interest rate on each outstanding auction rate note is limited by a maximum rate. The maximum rate is the least of three rates: a floating interest rate (generally one-month LIBOR plus a margin), a fixed interest rate and the maximum legally permissible rate. The margin applicable to the floating interest rate is dependent upon the then current ratings of the notes subject to an auction. If the notes are downgraded, the applicable margin, and the maximum floating rate, would increase. If the interest rate determined pursuant to the auction procedures would exceed the maximum rate, the interest rate for the applicable interest period would be set at the maximum rate, but the amount of 22 Table of Contents the "excess" interest would accrue as "carryover interest." A noteholder's right to receive carryover interest is superior to our interests in the applicable securitization trust. As a result, our projected cash releases from securitization trusts that have issued auction rate notes, including the timing of receipt, could be materially adversely affected by increased costs of funding of auction rate notes, including the extent to which a trust accrues carryover interest. Risks Related to the TERI Reorganization The TERI Reorganization has had, and will likely continue to have, a negative effect on our client relationships, which will adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We have historically structured and supported private education loan programs for commercial banks, including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and RBS Citizens, N.A. Following the TERI Reorganization, these clients elected to terminate some or all of their agreements with us. Our clients that have not terminated their agreements have instructed TERI to stop accepting applications for TERI-guaranteed loans. These actions resulted in a significant reduction in our facilitated loan volumes during fiscal 2009. In addition, we expect that the remaining guaranty agreements and loan origination agreements that TERI has with a significant number of our clients will be terminated in the context of the TERI Reorganization. Termination of the client's guaranty agreement or loan origination agreement with TERI would generally result in the termination of our agreements with that client. Our revenue, business and financial results will continue to suffer as a result until we can bring in new client origination volume. In addition, the TERI Reorganization, together with our inability to access the securitization market, has resulted in many of our former clients holding private education loan portfolios for longer than they had expected, which has negatively affected our client relationships and may affect market acceptance of our Monogram product offering or our stand-alone services. Finally, we may continue to incur significant legal costs related to the TERI Reorganization. The TERI Reorganization will adversely affect our ability to facilitate the securitization of TERI-guaranteed loans, and could adversely affect our cash flows from the securitization trusts. In its role as guarantor in the private education lending market, TERI has agreed to reimburse lenders for unpaid principal and interest on defaulted loans. TERI has historically been the exclusive provider of borrower default guarantees for our clients' private education loans. We expect the TERI Reorganization to adversely affect our ability to facilitate the securitization of TERI-guaranteed loans. In particular, we expect investors to ascribe little or no value to the TERI guaranty beyond a trust's Pledged Account. As a result, in structuring future securitizations of loans guaranteed or formerly guaranteed by TERI, if any, we will likely be required to reduce or eliminate our up-front structural advisory fee in order to increase the level of reserves available to the trust. In addition, it is likely that we would need to obtain additional credit enhancement for any future securitizations of such loans, the cost of which would also result in lower revenues. To the extent the Pledged Account or other reserves available to a particular securitization trust were exhausted, or in the event that the security interests granted by TERI to the trusts are unperfected or otherwise unenforceable or compromised, and loan defaults continued to occur, that trust would have a claim as an unsecured creditor of TERI in the context of the TERI Reorganization. If TERI's general reserves are insufficient to satisfy the guaranty claims, loan defaults would have a further adverse effect on the amount or timing of cash flows that would otherwise be expected to be generated by the trust, which would adversely affect the value of our service receivables and our asset servicing fees. 23 Table of Contents The Creditors Committee is challenging the enforceability of certain of the trusts' security interests, which may result in additional delay and expense, as well as a significant reduction in collateral available to the trusts. In June 2008, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Massachusetts, or the Bankruptcy Court, entered an order approving a motion by TERI to honor its guaranty agreement obligations using cash in Pledged Accounts established for the benefit of certain securitization trusts. Beginning in July 2008, TERI resumed paying its obligations under the guaranty agreements with respect to defaulted loans from the trusts, but only using cash in the Pledged Account established for the benefit of the specific trusts that owned the defaulted loan. As of September 2, 2009, TERI is not permitted to satisfy its guaranty obligations using funds from TERI's general reserves. Funds in the Pledged Accounts of certain trusts have been exhausted, or are expected to be exhausted in the near term, at which point such trust will have a general unsecured claim against TERI. The Bankruptcy Court's June 2008 order, however, granted the parties' rights to challenge the trusts' security interests in the collateral other than the Pledged Accounts. In January 2009, the Creditors Committee filed an adversary complaint in the Bankruptcy Court against the owner trustee and indenture trustee of 17 securitization trusts, and against our subsidiary First Marblehead Data Services, Inc., or FMDS, as administrator of such trusts. The complaint generally alleges that the security interests granted by TERI to the trusts, excluding the security interests in the Pledged Accounts, are unperfected or may otherwise be avoided under the Bankruptcy Code. In particular, the complaint alleges that the trusts do not have enforceable rights to future recoveries on defaulted loans owned by TERI with an aggregate principal and accrued interest balance of approximately $600.0 million as of June 30, 2009, or in amounts owed or transferred by TERI to Pledged Accounts after the filing of TERI's petition for reorganization totaling approximately $34.5 million as of June 30, 2009. Effective February 13, 2009, pending resolution of the issues raised in the Creditors Committee's complaint, certain trusts suspended the transfer of defaulted loans to TERI and suspended requests for default claim payments from their respective Pledged Accounts. In March 2009, FMDS and the owner trustee filed a motion to dismiss the Creditors Committee's adversary complaint. The indenture trustee also filed a motion to dismiss, joining the arguments made in the motion filed by FMDS and the owner trustee. The Creditors Committee filed an opposition to the motion to dismiss in April 2009, together with an amended complaint naming the trusts themselves as defendants. In May, FMDS filed a response to the opposition and amended complaint. A hearing on the motion to dismiss is scheduled for September 29, 2009. We cannot at this time predict the timing, costs or outcome of the adversary proceeding, and did not adjust our accounting assumptions during fiscal 2009 regarding TERI. If the Creditors Committee or any other party is successful in challenging the trusts' security interests in the funds transferred to the Pledged Accounts after the filing of TERI's petition for reorganization or other collateral, the amount of pledged collateral available exclusively to a particular securitization trust to satisfy TERI's guaranty obligations to that trust would decrease materially. As a result, the trust's unsecured claims against TERI would increase proportionately. For example, recoveries from defaulted education loans transferred to TERI, which have historically been used to replenish a particular trust's Pledged Account, would instead become an asset of TERI's bankruptcy estate and other holders of claims. The settlement of the adversary complaint, in the context of a plan of reorganization or otherwise, could also result in a material decrease in the amount of pledged collateral available exclusively to a particular securitization trust. Any such decrease could adversely affect the estimated fair value of our service receivables. Risks Related to Our Industry, Business and Operations Challenges exist in implementing revisions to our business model. During fiscal 2009, we took several measures to adjust our business in response to economic conditions. Most significantly, we refined our loan program offerings and added fee-for-service offerings 24 Table of Contents such as portfolio management and asset servicing. Successful sales of these products and services will be critical in order to grow our revenues and client base in the future. We have limited experience with the new product, the development of which was completed in August 2009. As of September 2, 2009, we have not fully deployed the product to any clients. We are uncertain of the level of interest from former or prospective clients with regard to the new product or offered services, particularly in the case of the Monogram product. Commercial banks have historically served as the initial funding sources for loans we manage and have been our principal clients. In the absence of securitizations, we are not able to provide to these banks the liquidity necessary to support long term funding of private education loans, and commercial banks are facing liquidity and credit challenges from other sources, in particular mortgage lending losses. In addition, the synergies that previously existed between federal loan marketing and private education loan marketing have been reduced by both the compression of margins in the federal program and regulatory restrictions on cross marketing of federal and private education loans, and in 2010, could face additional compression as a result of the elimination of the FFELP by the federal government. As a result, as of September 2, 2009, the private education loan business may generally be less attractive to commercial banks than in the past. In this environment, it is uncertain whether commercial banks will continue funding private education loans. Some of our former clients have exited the private education loan market completely. To the extent that commercial banks exit the private education loan market, the number of our prospective clients diminishes. The outsourcing services market for education lending is competitive and if we are not able to compete effectively, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. We offer our clients and prospective clients, national and regional financial institutions and educational institutions, services in structuring and supporting their private education loan programs. The outsourcing services market in which we operate includes a number of service providers, some of which have greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition and more established relationships with their clients than we have. Larger competitors with greater financial resources may be better able than we are to overcome capital markets dislocations, respond to the need for technological changes, compete for skilled professionals, build upon efficiencies based on a larger volume of loan transactions, fund internal growth and compete for market share generally. We may face competition from our clients or former clients if they choose, or acquire the ability to provide directly the services that we provide, or formerly provided, to them. In addition, to the extent that Union Federal provides private education loans directly to consumers, we would compete directly with clients and former clients. We may face competition from third parties who decide to expand their services to include the suite of services that we provide. Based on the range of services that we offer, we believe that Sallie Mae is our principal competitor. Our business could be adversely affected if Sallie Mae's program to market private education loans continues to grow, or if Sallie Mae or Nelnet, Inc., which currently provides fee-based services for non-federally guaranteed loans, seeks to market more aggressively to third parties the full range of services that we offer. Other private education loan originators include JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo & Company, Discover Financial Services, and Student Loan Corporation, an 80% owned subsidiary of Citibank, N.A., that offer a similar range of services and/or products. If we are not able to compete effectively, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if third parties choose to provide the range of services that we provide, pricing for our services may become more competitive, which could lower our profitability. Historically, lenders in the education loan market have focused their lending activities on federal loans because of the relative size of the federal loan market and because the federal government guarantees repayment of these loans, thereby significantly limiting the lenders' credit risk. The demand for our services could decline if lenders place additional emphasis on the private education loan market and offer the services we provide in response to recent legislative initiatives affecting the availability and profitability of federal loans, including the proposed elimination of the FFELP. 25 Table of Contents The growth of our business could be adversely affected by changes in government education loan programs or expansions in the population of students eligible for loans under government education loan programs. We focus our business exclusively on the market for private education loans, and more than 98% of our business is concentrated in products for post-secondary education. The availability and terms of loans that the government originates or guarantees affects the demand for private education loans because students and their families often rely on private education loans to bridge a gap between available funds, including family savings, grants and federal and state loans, and the costs of post-secondary education. The federal government currently places both annual and aggregate limitations on the amount of federal loans that any student can receive and determines the criteria for student eligibility. These guidelines are generally adjusted in connection with funding authorizations from the United States Congress for programs under the Higher Education Act. Recent federal legislation expands federal grant and loan assistance, which could weaken the demand for private education loans. In addition, legislation such as the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of 2007 has significantly reduced the profit margins of traditional providers of federal education loans, which could result in increased competition in the market for private education loans, which could adversely affect the volume of private education loans and the securitization transactions that we facilitate and structure and, as a result, the growth of our business. In May 2008, the "Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008" was signed into law and contains provisions which might adversely impact the demand for private education loans and outsourcing services provided by us, availability and flow of funds for private education loans, and our liquidity position. Among other things, the Act: •permits a parent borrower under the federal PLUS loan program to defer repayment of the PLUS loan until six months after the student ceases to carry at least one-half the normal full-time academic workload; •extends eligibility for a PLUS loan to an applicant who, during the period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2008, has not been delinquent for more than 180 days on mortgage loan payments or medical bill payments nor more than 89 days delinquent on the repayment of any other debt, in any case, during such period; and •increases the loan limits for unsubsidized Stafford loans for undergraduate students. In August 2008, the "Higher Education Opportunity Act" was signed into law, which will: •add significant restrictions to the marketing of federal and private education loans; and •add significant compliance burdens to private education loan lenders by adding new truth-in-lending disclosures, procedures and rescission rights, as well as accompanying civil penalties. Access to alternative means of financing the costs of education may reduce demand for private education loans. The demand for private education loans could weaken if student borrowers use other vehicles to bridge the gap between available funds and costs of post-secondary education. These vehicles include, among others: •home equity loans, under which families borrow money based on the value of their real estate; •pre-paid tuition plans, which allow students to pay tuition at today's rates to cover tuition costs in the future; •529 plans, which are state-sponsored investment plans that allow a family to save funds for education expenses; and 26 Table of Contents •education IRAs, now known as Coverdell Education Savings Accounts, under which a holder can make annual contributions for education savings. If demand for private education loans weakens, we would experience reduced demand for our services, which would seriously harm our financial results. Continuation of the current economic conditions could adversely affect the private education loan industry. During the past year, rising unemployment rates and the unsteady financial sector have adversely affected many consumers and borrowers throughout the country. Some consumers may find that higher education is an unnecessary investment during turbulent economic times and defer enrollment in educational institutions until the economy improves thus decreasing education loan application and funding volumes. In addition, current borrowers may experience more trouble in repaying credit obligations which could increase loan delinquencies and defaults. Finally, many lending institutions have exited the private education loan business and may or may not seek our services to revive this line of business as the economy improves. If the adverse economic environment continues, our financial condition may deteriorate for any one of the foregoing reasons. If our clients do not actively or successfully market and fund private education loans, our business will be adversely affected. We have in the past relied on, and will continue in the future to rely on, our clients to market and fund private education loans to student borrowers. If our clients do not devote sufficient time and resources to their marketing efforts, or if they are otherwise not successful in these efforts, then we may experience a reduction in the volume of loans that we process and securitize, and our business will be adversely affected. In addition, if the loans were marketed by our clients in a manner that is unfair or deceptive, or if the marketing, origination or servicing violated any applicable law, state unfair and deceptive practices acts could impose liability on a securitization trust holding the loan or create defenses to the enforceability of the loan. Investigations by the New York Attorney General, the Attorneys General of other states, the United States Congress or others could have a negative impact on lenders' desire to market private education loans. The Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 creates significant additional restrictions on the marketing of private education loans. If we fail to manage effectively our cost reductions, our business could be disrupted and financial results could be adversely affected. During fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we reduced headcount by over 800 employees, including departures of our former Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Information Officer and Chief Marketing Officer. Our cost reduction initiatives have placed and will continue to place a strain on our management, systems and resources at a critical point in our business and industry. We must continue to develop alternatives to the loan guaranty and origination services that TERI has historically provided to our clients, and we must refine our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. We must retain, train, supervise and manage our remaining employees during this period of change in our business. We currently outsource some borrower services and telesales functions in an effort to reduce costs, take advantage of technologies and effectively manage the seasonality associated with education loan volume. We rely on our vendors to provide high levels of service and support. Our reliance on these external vendors subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely service and could result in fewer loans than we would experience if we performed the service functions in-house. 27 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to: •expand our systems effectively; •successfully develop new products or services; •allocate our human resources optimally; •identify, hire and retain qualified employees or vendors; or •incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. We are dependent upon the retention of certain key employees and the loss of any such employees could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to manage our cost reductions, or if we lose key employees as a result, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected. If competitors acquire or develop a private education loan database or advanced loan information processing systems, our business could be adversely affected. We own a proprietary database of historical information on private education loan performance that we use to help us establish the pricing provisions of new products on behalf of lenders, determine the terms of securitization transactions and establish the fair value of the structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residuals that we recognize as revenue. We also have developed, and continue to develop as of September 2, 2009, a proprietary loan information processing system to enhance our application processing and loan origination capabilities. Our private education loan database and loan information processing system provide us with a competitive advantage in offering our services. Third parties could create or acquire databases and systems such as ours. For example, as lenders and other organizations in the private education loan market originate or service loans, they compile over time information for their own private education loan performance database. Our competitors and potential competitors may have originated or serviced a greater volume of private education loans than us over the past two fiscal years, which may have provided them with comparatively greater borrower or loan data or insights, particularly during the most recent economic cycle. If a third-party creates or acquires a private education loan database or develops a loan information processing system, our competitive positioning, ability to attract new clients and business could be adversely affected. As a result of the termination of our agreements with TERI in the context of the TERI Reorganization, we have lost access to continuing updates to the database of TERI-guaranteed loan performance data with regard to TERI-guaranteed loans that are neither held by securitization trusts facilitated by us nor Union Federal. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary database and information systems and processes, the value of our services and technology will be adversely affected. We rely on trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our proprietary database and information systems and processes. We have sought to limit TERI's rights to disclose its historical loan database in the context of the TERI Reorganization, and we have entered into confidentiality agreements with third parties and with some of our employees to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information. These methods may neither effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information nor provide meaningful protection for our confidential information if there is unauthorized use or disclosure. We own no material patents. Accordingly, our technology, including our loan information processing systems, is not covered by patents that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our market. Monitoring unauthorized use of the systems and processes that we have developed is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps that we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary 28 Table of Contents information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our proprietary information. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and services will be adversely affected. The loan origination process is becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement, and we could lose clients and market share if we are not able to keep pace with rapid changes in technology. Our future success depends in part on our ability to process loan applications in an automated, error-free manner. The volume of loan originations that we are able to process is based in large part on the systems and processes we have implemented and developed. The loan origination process is becoming increasingly dependent upon technological advancement such as the ability to process loans over the Internet, accept electronic signatures and provide initial decisions instantly. Our future sucess also depends in part on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely basis. In addition, we expect to reduce our investment in technology during fiscal 2010 compared to past fiscal years. If competitors introduce products, services, systems and processes that are better than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, those that we offer or use may become obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, if we fail to execute our clients' origination requirements or properly administer the clients' credit agreement templates or required disclosures, we could be subject to breach of contract claims and related damages. Any one of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation and ability to obtain and retain clients. We may be required to expend significant funds to develop or acquire new technologies. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors, we could lose clients and market share. We also could lose market share if our competitors develop more cost effective technologies than those we offer or develop. Our business could be adversely affected if PHEAA fails to provide adequate or timely services or if our relationship with PHEAA terminates. As of June 30, 2009, PHEAA serviced a substantial majority of loans held by the securitization trusts that we administer. This arrangement allows us to avoid the overhead investment in servicing operations but requires us to rely on PHEAA to adequately service the trusts' education loans, including collecting payments, responding to borrower inquiries and communicating with borrowers whose loans have become delinquent. We periodically review the costs associated with establishing servicing operations to service loans. Our reliance on an external service provider for loan servicing subjects us to risks associated with inadequate or untimely services, including notice of developments in prepayments, delinquencies and defaults. A substantial increase in these rates could adversely affect our ability to access profitably the securitization markets for our clients' loans and the value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees and residuals receivables. In addition, if PHEAA were to fail to comply with TERI's servicing guidelines in servicing securitized TERI-guaranteed private education loans, TERI would not be obligated to make guaranty payments on such loans, in which case PHEAA would be obligated to cure the noncompliance or purchase the loans. Such an event could have a negative impact on the value of our residuals, asset servicing fees and additional structural advisory fee receivables. If our relationship with PHEAA terminates, we would either need to expand or develop a relationship with another loan servicer, which could be time consuming and costly. In such event, our business could be adversely affected. An interruption in or breach of our information systems may result in lost business. We rely heavily upon communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our systems and operations are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from network failure, hardware failure, software failure, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses and worms, 29 Table of Contents penetration of our network by hackers or other unauthorized users and natural disasters. Any failure or interruption, or breach in security, of our information systems or the third-party information systems on which we rely could cause underwriting or other delays and could result in fewer loan applications being received, slower processing of applications and reduced efficiency in loan processing. A failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in an obligation to notify clients in a number of states that require such notification, with possible civil liability resulting from such failure, interruption or breach. We cannot assure you that such failures, interruptions or breaches will not occur, or if they do occur that we or the third parties on whom we rely will adequately address them. The precautionary measures that we have implemented to avoid systems outages and to minimize the effects of any data or telephone systems interruptions may not be adequate, and we may not have anticipated or addressed all of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our information systems. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or breach could significantly impair the reputation of our brand, diminish the attractiveness of our services and harm our business. If we experience a data security breach and confidential customer information is disclosed, we may be subject to penalties imposed by regulators, civil actions for damages and negative publicity, which could affect our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, current state and federal legislative proposals, if enacted, may impose additional requirements on us to safeguard confidential customer information, which may result in increased compliance costs. Recently, data security breaches suffered by well-known companies and institutions have attracted a substantial amount of media attention, prompting state and federal legislative proposals and regulatory rule-making to address data privacy and security. If some of the current proposals are adopted, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the applicant and borrower information that we process in connection with the loans. Implementation of systems and procedures to address these requirements would increase our compliance costs. If we were to experience a data security breach, or if we or the securitization trusts that we administer otherwise improperly disclose confidential customer information, such breach or other disclosure could generate negative publicity about us and could adversely affect our relationships with our clients, including the lenders and educational institutions with which we do business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, pending legislative proposals, if adopted, likely would result in substantial penalties for unauthorized disclosure of confidential consumer information. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in regulatory sanctions imposed on our client lenders and loss of business for us. Risks Relating to Regulatory Matters We are subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company, and Union Federal Savings Bank is regulated extensively. As a result of our acquisition of Union Federal in November 2006, we became subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company and our business is limited to activities that are financial or real-estate related. We have registered with the OTS and are required to file periodic reports. In addition, we are subject to examination by the OTS, which has certain types of enforcement powers over us, including the ability in certain circumstances to review and approve changes in management and compensation arrangements, issue additional cease-and-desist orders, force divestiture of Union Federal and impose civil and monetary penalties for violations of federal banking laws and regulations or for unsafe or unsound banking practices. Any such actions could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity or ability to execute our business plan. In addition, Union Federal is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS and the FDIC. Such regulation covers all banking business, including activities and investments, lending practices, safeguarding deposits, capitalization, risk management policies and procedures, 30 Table of Contents relationships with affiliated companies, efforts to combat money laundering, recordkeeping and conduct and qualifications of personnel. In particular, the failure to meet minimum capital requirements could initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material adverse effect on our operations and financial statements. We have in the past been required to make capital infusions to Union Federal to support the private education loan portfolio held by Union Federal, and regulatory authorities could require additional capital infusions or take other corrective measures in the future. There is a risk that we could incur additional costs in complying with regulations applicable to savings and loan holding companies and savings banks, or significant penalties if we fail to comply. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules depends largely on our establishment and maintenance of a system to ensure such compliance, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Further reductions in staffing levels could make it difficult to retain experienced personnel to maintain adequate internal controls related to regulatory matters. If severe failures in internal controls occur, regulatory authorities could impose sanctions on Union Federal or us. We have relatively limited experience with these regulations, and we could in the future be subject to additional supervisory orders to cease and desist, civil monetary penalties or other actions due to claimed noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to comply with recent OTS enforcement agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results In July 2009, we entered into the Supervisory Agreement with the OTS and Union Federal entered in to a stipulation consenting to the issuance by the OTS of the Order to cease and desist. The Supervisory Agreement requires us to, among other things: •maintain Union Federal's regulatory capital ratios at the greater of: (i) the capital ratios specified in Union Federal's business plan approved by the OTS in November 2006, (ii) the capital ratios specified in a future business plan found acceptable to OTS or (iii) the minimum regulatory capital requirements; •maintain a deposit at Union Federal in the amount of $30.0 million until the earlier to occur of the (i) sale of Union Federal or (ii) reduction of Union Federal's private education loan concentration ratio to 50% of Union Federal's Tier 1 capital plus allowances for loan losses; •obtain prior approval of the OTS before (i) engaging in any transaction with Union Federal or (ii) paying any cash dividends, repurchasing or redeeming any shares of its stock, incurring any debt exceeding $5.0 million or accepting any dividend or other payment representing a reduction in capital from Union Federal; and •obtain prior approval of the OTS in connection with any "golden parachute payment" and comply with notice requirements for certain changes in directors and senior executive officers. The Order requires Union Federal to, among other things: •submit to the Regional Director of the OTS within 60 days a new business plan covering fiscal years 2010, 2011 and 2012, reflecting Union Federal's proposed strategy, business activities and quarterly financial projections; •develop and implement a liquidity plan that contains strategies for ensuring that Union Federal maintains adequate short-term and long-term liquidity; •adopt a concentration reduction plan that would: (i) prevent Union Federal from originating private education loans until Union Federal reduces the concentration of private education loans to Tier 1 capital plus allowances for loan losses below 50% and (ii) require Union Federal to achieve such a reduction by December 31, 2009; 31 Table of Contents •engage within 60 days a qualified third-party provider, subject to approval of the Regional Director of the OTS, to perform an evaluation of the private education loans held by Union Federal as of March 31, 2009; •obtain prior approval of the OTS before increasing the dollar amount of brokered deposits; •provide the OTS with prior notice before (i) engaging in any transaction with an affiliate or (ii) entering into, renewing, extending or revising any contractual arrangement relating to compensation or benefits for any senior executive officer or director; and •obtain prior approval of the OTS in connection with any "golden parachute payment" and comply with notice requirements for certain changes in directors and senior executive officers. The terms of the Supervisory Agreement and the Order will remain in effect until terminated, modified or suspended by the OTS. These terms require a significant commitment from us of capital and management attention, which could be otherwise deployed. Although we and Union Federal each intend to take such actions as may be necessary to enable us to comply with our respective requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Supervisory Agreement or the Order, as applicable, or to do so within the timeframes required. Moreover, there can be no assurance that compliance with such requirements will not be more time consuming or more expensive than anticipated, or that efforts to comply with such requirements will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of us or Union Federal. In particular, compliance with the Order to reduce the level of private education loans held by Union Federal by December 31, 2009 could require us to sell or otherwise dispose of the portfolio on terms that we would not otherwise consider acceptable, including the sale or other disposition of such loans at a significant loss, which would negatively affect our financial results in the quarter in which such transaction occurs. In addition, the limitations imposed on Union Federal's rates of private education loans to capital will foreclose meaningful participation by Union Federal in our new product offering in the near term. Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreement or Order, or other supervisory directives, could subject us to further orders to cease and desist, significant civil monetary penalties, recovery of severance payments made to former employees, or other mandatory actions. Accordingly, any material failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may become subject to state registration or licensing requirements. If we determine that we are subject to the registration or licensing requirements of any jurisdiction, our compliance costs could increase significantly and other adverse consequences may result. Many states have statutes and regulations that require the licensure of small loan lenders, loan brokers and loan arrangers. Some of these statutes are drafted or interpreted to cover a broad scope of activities. We have not taken formal action regarding licensing or registration with any regulatory body outside the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, other than the OTS. While we believe that our prior consultations with regulatory counsel and, in some cases local counsel, have identified all material licensing, registration and other regulatory requirements that could be applicable to us, legislative changes to state licensing schemes may raise potential concerns. In particular, subsequent legislation in one state could require licensure if we provide outsourced loan origination services in the future otherwise than through an operating subsidiary of Union Federal. Even if we are not physically present in a state, its regulators may take the position that registration or licensing is required because we provide services by mail, telephone, the Internet or other remote means. All of our operations relating to education loan processing are located in Massachusetts. In 2001, we received determination letters from the Massachusetts Division of Banks confirming that the loan origination outsourcing services provided under contract to TERI by FMER were not subject to 32 Table of Contents licensing under the Massachusetts Small Loan Act because FMER did not conduct a lending business with consumers in its own name and its processing centers were not generally open to the public. In May 2008, following the TERI Reorganization, we received an additional determination letter from the Massachusetts Division of Banks confirming that FMER's business of back office loan application processing, loan origination and loan underwriting functions on behalf of lenders was exempt from licensing under the Massachusetts Small Loan Act. The Massachusetts Small Loan Act requires any person that is engaged, for compensation, in the business of making small loans, or in aiding or assisting the borrower or the lender in procuring or making such loans, to obtain a license. Under the statute, the business of making small loans includes the making of loans of $6,000 or less with interest rates and expenses of more than 12% per year. The loans that we have facilitated include amounts as small as $1,000, and a portion of those loans have combined interest rates and fees exceeding 12%. We have provided outsourced private education loan origination services on a fee-for-service basis through FMER and Union Federal's subsidiary FMLOS. To the extent that these are conducted through Union Federal or FMLOS, we believe it is less likely that state regulatory requirements affecting loan brokers, small lenders and credit services organizations will be asserted. Operational restrictions imposed by federal regulators could, however, limit our ability to offer services through FMLOS on a fee-for-service basis. We will continue to review state registration and licensing requirements that may become applicable to us in the future. As a result of providing portfolio management services, additional licensing schemes may apply to us. As a result of this continuing review, we may determine that registration or licensing is required in jurisdictions where we are not currently registered or licensed. In such a case, we may proceed with licensing or registration in the affected state, or we may attempt to restructure our activities in a manner that we believe to be exempt from such licensing or registration. Compliance with state licensing requirements could involve additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to comply with these laws could lead to, among other things: •curtailment of our ability to continue to conduct business in the relevant jurisdiction, pending processing of registration or a license application; •administrative enforcement actions; •class action lawsuits; •the assertion of legal defenses delaying or otherwise affecting the enforcement of loans; and •criminal as well as civil liability, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be exposed to liability for failures of third parties with which we do business to comply with the registration, licensing and other requirements that apply to them. Third parties with which we do, or have done, business, including federal and state chartered financial institutions, non-bank loan marketers, as well as TERI, are subject to registration, licensing and extensive governmental regulations, including Truth-in-Lending laws and other consumer protection laws and regulations. For example, some of the third-party marketers with which we have done or may do business may be subject to state registration or licensing requirements and laws and regulations, including those relating to small loans, loan brokers and credit services organizations. As a result of the activities that we conduct or may conduct for our clients, it may be asserted that we have some responsibility for compliance by third parties with which we do business with the laws and regulations applicable to them, whether on contractual or other grounds. If it is determined that we have failed to comply with our obligations with respect to these third parties, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability. 33 Table of Contents Failure to comply with consumer protection laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties or litigation, including class actions, and have a material adverse effect on our business. The federal government and state governments regulate extensively the financial institutions and other entities that originate loans in the private education loan market. These regulations include bankruptcy, tax, usury, disclosure, credit reporting, identity theft, privacy, fraud and abuse and other laws to protect borrowers. Changes in consumer protection laws or related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, may expose us to litigation, result in greater compliance costs, adversely affect the collection of balances due on the loan assets held by securitization trusts or otherwise adversely affect our business. We could incur substantial additional expense complying with these requirements and may be required to create new processes and information systems. Moreover, changes in the consumer protection laws and related regulations, or in the prevailing interpretations thereof, could invalidate or call into question the legality of certain of our services and business practices. The risk of noncompliance with regulatory requirements by our lender clients and their marketing partners has been highlighted by recent state and federal investigations into education loan marketing practices, particularly the payment of marketing fees directly to schools in exchange for loan referrals. None of our contracts with lenders or marketers involves the payment of fees to schools for loan volume. State and federal regulatory authorities have sought information from some of our former clients and us regarding the loan programs we coordinated, and it is possible that some marketing or underwriting practices associated with the programs we coordinated and assets we securitized will be challenged as a result of such investigations. In August 2007, we announced that, as part of the New York Attorney General's ongoing investigation of several lending, educational, and nonprofit institutions, we had received a subpoena for information regarding our role in the education loan industry. During fiscal 2008, we worked with the New York Attorney General's office regarding the investigation. The regulatory actions described above have also prompted state and federal legislation that will affect our operations. In August 2009, the Federal Reserve Board issued regulations to implement provisions of the Higher Education Opportunity Act, which was signed into law in August 2008. The regulations revise the number, timing, and content of disclosures required for private education loans by TILA and the Federal Reserve Board's implementing regulation for TILA, Regulation Z. Under the regulations, creditors that extend private education loans will be required to provide disclosures about loan terms and features on or with the loan application and will also be required to disclose information about federal education loan programs that may offer less costly alternatives to private education loans. Additional disclosures must be provided when the loan is approved and after loan acceptance but prior to loan disbursement. The Federal Reserve Board has also proposed model disclosure forms that creditors could use to comply with the new disclosure requirements. Compliance with the new regulations will be mandatory as of February 14, 2010. Violations of the laws or regulations governing our operations, or the operations of our clients, could result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services or our exclusion from participating in education loan programs. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, the loan assets held by securitization trusts that we have structured could be adversely impacted by violation of tax or consumer protection laws. In such event, the value of our residual interests or asset servicing fees could also be adversely impacted. In some cases, such violations may render the loan assets unenforceable. 34 Table of Contents Recent litigation has sought to re-characterize certain loan marketers and other originators as lenders; if litigation on similar theories were successful against us or any third-party marketer we have worked with in the past, the loans that we securitize would be subject to individual state consumer protection laws. All of the lenders with which we work are federally-insured banks and credit unions and, therefore, are not subject to many state consumer protection laws, including limitations on certain interest rates, fees and other charges. In providing our private education loan services to our clients, we do not act as a lender, guarantor or loan servicer, and the terms of the loans that we securitize are regulated in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable to the lenders. The association between marketers of high-interest "payday" loans and tax-return anticipation loans, or TRAL, and out-of-state national banks has come under recent scrutiny. Recent litigation asserts that payday loan and TRAL marketers use out-of-state lenders in order to evade the usury and interest rate caps, and other consumer protection laws, imposed by the states where they do business. Such litigation has sought, successfully in some instances, to re-characterize the loan marketer as the lender for purposes of state consumer protection law restrictions. Similar civil actions have been brought in the context of gift cards. We believe that our activities, and the activities of third parties whose marketing on behalf of lenders has been coordinated by us, are distinguishable from the activities involved in these cases. Additional state consumer protection laws would be applicable to the loans we facilitate if we, or any third-party loan marketer whose activities we coordinated, were re-characterized as a lender, and the loans (or the provisions governing interest rates, fees and other charges) could be unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to claims by consumers, as well as enforcement actions by regulators. Even if we were not required to cease doing business with residents of certain states or to change our business practices to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be required to register or obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on us. To date, there have been no actions taken or threatened against us on the theory that we have engaged in unauthorized lending. However, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part or all of your investment in our shares of common stock. Those factors that could cause fluctuations include, but are not limited to, the following: •actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or in the expectations of securities analysts, including as a result of the timing, size or structure of any securitizations or alternative transactions; •difficulties we may encounter in structuring securitizations or alternative financings, including continued disruptions in the private education loan ABS market or demand for securities offered by trusts that we facilitate, or the loss of opportunities to structure securitization transactions; •any variance between the actual performance of the securitization trusts and the key assumptions that we have used to estimate the fair value of our additional structural advisory fees and residuals receivables; •changes in the key assumptions we use to estimate the fair value of our additional structural advisory fees, asset servicing fees, residuals receivables and education loans held for sale, including among others, discount, default and prepayment rates; •announcement by us, our competitors or our potential competitors of acquisitions, new products or services, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital markets activities; 35 Table of Contents •the success of Monogram, our new product offering, or our fee-for-service offerings; •developments in the TERI Reorganization, including challenges to the trusts' security interests in collateral securing TERI's guaranty obligations or TERI's rejection of its guaranty agreements; •negative publicity about the private education loan market generally or us specifically; •regulatory developments or sanctions directed at Union Federal or us; •adverse rating agency actions with respect to the securitization trusts that we have facilitated; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market and volatility in the ABS market, from time to time; •our failure to realize the tax benefits we expect from the sale of the Trust Certificate; •significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of financial services and process outsourcing companies; •general economic conditions and trends, including economic pressure on consumer asset classes such as private education loans; •legislative initiatives affecting federal or private education loans, including the federal budget and final regulations implementing Title X of the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 that revise disclosure and procedural requirements for private education loans; •major catastrophic events; •purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock or other strategic investments involving us; or •departures or long-term unavailability of key personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the recent volatility of our stock price, we have in fact become the target of securities litigation. See Item 3 of this annual report, "Legal Proceedings," for additional detail. The securities litigation, as well as any future litigation, could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources from our business. Insiders have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors and executive officers, and entities affiliated with them, beneficially owned approximately 26.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of June 30, 2009, excluding shares of preferred stock held by affiliates of GS Capital Partners, or GSCP, and convertible into 8,846,733 additional shares of our common stock. Affiliates of GSCP have agreed to hold shares of, and not to convert, the preferred stock if, after giving effect to any such conversion, they and their affiliates would own more than 9.9% of our outstanding shares of common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, could substantially influence matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. 36 Table of Contents Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may deter third-parties from acquiring us. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: •only our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or our president may call special meetings of our stockholders; •our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; •we have authorized undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; •our directors may be removed only for cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is present, or by the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and •we impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may delay, defer or prevent a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder," which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 