Item 1A. Risk Factors We caution you that our actual future results may vary materially from those contained in forward-looking statements that we make in this Report and other filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements due to the following important factors, among others. Our forward-looking statements in this Report and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. These statements can be affected by, among other things, inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties or risks we currently deem immaterial. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to draw visitors to our websites and promote our products and services, such as purchased search results from online search engines, e-mail, direct mail, advertising banners and other links on third parties’ websites directing customers to our websites, and television broadcast. In addition, we rely heavily upon word of mouth customer referrals. If we are unable to develop or maintain effective means of reaching micro businesses and home and family customers, if the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or if we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, then our ability to attract new and repeat customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites would be reduced, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Purchasers of micro business marketing products and services, including graphic design and customized printing, may not choose to shop online, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers that are necessary to the success of our business. The online market for micro business marketing products and services is less developed than the online market for other business and home and family products. If this market does not gain or 16 Table of Contents maintain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract customers who have historically purchased products and services we offer through traditional printing operations and graphic design businesses or who have produced using self-service alternatives. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or price our services and products more competitively than we currently anticipate in order to attract consumers to our websites and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us as an online retailer include: • concerns about buying graphic design services and marketing products without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel; • the inability to physically handle and examine product samples; • delivery time associated with Internet orders; • concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; • delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and • the inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. If our long-term growth strategy is not successful or if our financial projections relating to the effects of our strategy turn out to be incorrect, our business and financial results could be harmed. We have announced a new long-term investment and financial strategy and associated financial projections relating to the growth of our business over the next five years, but we may not achieve our announced objectives, and our investments in our business may fail to affect our revenue or diluted earnings per share growth as anticipated. Some of the factors that could cause our investment strategy and our overall business strategy to fail to achieve our objectives include, among others: • our failure to adequately execute our operational strategy or anticipate and overcome obstacles to achieving our strategic goals; • our failure to make our intended investments because the investments are more costly than we expected or because we are unable to devote the necessary operational and financial resources; • our inability to purchase or develop technologies and production platforms to increase our efficiency, enhance our competitive advantage and scale our operations; • the failure of our current supply chain to provide the resources we need and our inability to develop new or enhanced supply chains; • our failure to acquire new customers and enter new markets, retain our current customers and sell more products to current and new customers; • our failure to promote and strengthen our brand; • the failure of our current and new marketing channels to attract customers; • our failure to manage the growth and complexity of our business and expand our operations; 17 Table of Contents • unanticipated changes in our business, current and anticipated markets, industry or competitive landscape; and • general economic conditions. In addition, projections are inherently uncertain and are based on assumptions and judgments by management that may be flawed or based on information about our business and markets that may change in the future, many of which are beyond our reasonable control. Our actual results may differ materially from our projections due to various factors, including but not limited to the factors listed immediately above; currency exchange fluctuations, which may affect our revenues and costs; change in the laws and regulations or in the interpretations of laws and regulations to which we are subject, including tax laws, or the institution of new laws or regulations that affect our business; costs and judgments resulting from litigation; and costs and disruptions caused by acquisitions. If our strategy is not successful, then our revenue and earnings may not grow as anticipated or may decline, our reputation and brand may be damaged, and the price of our shares may decline. In addition, we may change our financial strategy or other components of our overall business strategy if we believe it is not effective, if our business or markets change, or for other reasons which may cause fluctuations in our financial results and volatility in our share price. We may not succeed in promoting, strengthening and continuing to establish the Vistaprint brand, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. A primary component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the Vistaprint brand in order to attract new and repeat customers to our websites. In addition to the challenges posed by establishing and promoting our brand among the many businesses that promote products and services on the Internet, we face significant competition from graphic design and printing companies marketing to micro businesses who also seek to establish strong brands. If we are unable to successfully promote the Vistaprint brand, we may fail to increase our revenues. Customer awareness of our brand and its perceived value depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brand, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial expenses related to advertising and other marketing efforts. We may choose to increase our branding expense materially, but we cannot be sure that this investment will be profitable. Underperformance of significant future branding efforts could materially damage our financial results. A component of our brand promotion strategy is establishing a relationship of trust with our customers by providing a high-quality customer experience. In order to provide a high-quality customer experience, we have invested and will continue to invest substantial amounts of resources in our website development, design and technology, graphic design operations, production operations, and customer service operations. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience is also dependent, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers, third-party carriers and communication infrastructure providers. If we are unable to provide customers with a high-quality customer experience for any reason, our reputation would be harmed, and our efforts to develop Vistaprint as a trusted brand would be adversely impacted. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, and, as a result, substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our quarterly financial results will often fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our share price. Our revenues and operating results often vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, some of which are inherent in our business strategies but many of which are 18 Table of Contents outside of our control. We target annual, rather than quarterly, EPS objectives, which can lead to fluctuations in our quarterly results. Other factors that could cause our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate or result in earnings that are lower than our guidance, or both, include among others: • seasonality-driven or other variations in the demand for our products and services; • currency fluctuations, which affect our revenues and costs; • our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers; • our ability to retain customers and generate repeat purchases; • business and consumer preferences for our products and services; • shifts in product mix toward less profitable products; • our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations; • costs to produce and deliver our products and provide our services, including the effects of inflation; • our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; • investments in our business to generate or support revenues and operations in future periods, such as marketing, engineering or consulting spend in a current period for revenue growth or support in future periods; • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our long-term growth strategy; • improvements in the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing; • compensation expense and charges related to agreements entered into with our executives and employees; • costs and charges resulting from litigation; and • a significant increase in credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products. We base our operating expense budgets in part on expected revenue trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office leases, depreciation and personnel costs, are relatively fixed, and we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenue may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Based on the factors cited above, among others, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results may sometimes be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, in which case the price of our ordinary shares will likely fall. Seasonal fluctuations in our business place a strain on our operations and resources. Our second fiscal quarter includes the majority of the holiday shopping season and in each of the last three fiscal years has accounted for more of our revenue and earnings than any other quarter, primarily due to higher sales of home and family products such as holiday cards, calendars and personalized gifts. We believe our second fiscal quarter is likely to continue to account for a 19 Table of Contents disproportionate amount of our revenue and earnings for the foreseeable future. In anticipation of increased sales activity during our second fiscal quarter holiday season, we typically incur significant additional capacity related expenses each year to meet our seasonal needs, including facility expansions, equipment purchases and increases in the number of temporary and permanent employees. Lower than expected sales during the second quarter would likely have a disproportionately large impact on our operating results and financial condition for the full fiscal year. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to seasonality in our business, our business and results of operations may be materially harmed. A significant portion of our revenues and operations are transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. We therefore have currency exchange risk. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may impact items such as the translation of our revenues and expenses, remeasurement of our intercompany balances, and the value of our cash and cash equivalents denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For example, when currency exchange movements are unfavorable to our business, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our revenue and operating income recorded in other currencies is diminished. As we have expanded and continue to expand our revenues and operations throughout the world and to additional currencies, our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations has increased and we expect will continue to increase. Our revenue and results of operations may differ materially from expectations as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. If we are unable to market and sell products and services beyond our existing target markets and develop new products and services to attract new customers, our results of operations may suffer. We have developed products and services and implemented marketing strategies designed to attract micro business owners and consumers to our websites and encourage them to purchase our products and services. We believe we need to address additional markets and attract new customers to further grow our business. To access new markets and customers, we expect that we will need to develop, market and sell new products and services, expand our marketing and sales channels, expand our business and operations geographically by introducing localized websites in different countries, and develop new strategic relationships. Any failure in these areas could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to manage our expected growth and expand our operations successfully, our reputation would be damaged and our business and results of operations would be harmed. In recent years, our number of employees and geographic footprint has grown rapidly, and we expect the number of countries and facilities from which we operate to continue to increase in the future. Our growth, combined with the geographical separation of our operations, has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management, administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and anticipated growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, reporting systems and procedures in the locations in which we operate. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage expected future expansion, our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our global operations, the growth of our business could be negatively impacted. We operate production facilities or offices in 13 countries and have 24 localized websites to serve various geographic markets. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our international operations. These risks and challenges include, among others: • difficulty managing operations in, and communications among, multiple locations and time zones; • local regulations that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct our business as planned; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local producers and service providers; • failure to comply with laws, treaties and regulations that could expose us to unanticipated taxes, duties and other costs; • failure to properly understand and develop graphic design content and product formats appropriate for local tastes; • disruptions caused by political and social instability that may occur in some countries; • disruptions or cessation of important components of our international supply chain; • restrictions imposed by local labor practices and laws on our business and operations; and • failure of local laws to provide a sufficient degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property. Our international operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We face risks related to interruption of our operations and lack of redundancy. Our production facilities, websites, transaction processing systems, network infrastructure, supply chain and customer service operations may be vulnerable to interruptions, and we do not have redundancies in all cases to carry on these operations in the event of an interruption. Some of the events that could cause interruptions in our operations or systems are, among others: • human error, including but not limited to poor managerial judgment or oversight; • fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane or other natural disaster or extreme weather; • labor strike, work stoppage or other issue with our workforce; • political instability or acts of terrorism or war; • power loss or telecommunication failure; • undetected errors or design faults in our technology, infrastructure and processes that may cause our websites to fail; and • inadequate capacity in our systems and infrastructure to cope with periods of high volume and demand, particularly during promotional campaign periods and in the seasonal peak we experience in our second fiscal quarter. 21 Table of Contents In particular, both Bermuda, where substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites is located in a single facility, and Jamaica, our largest customer service, sales and design support operation, are subject to a high degree of hurricane risk and extreme weather conditions. We have not identified alternatives to all of our facilities, systems, supply chains and infrastructure, including production, to serve us in the event of an interruption, and if we were to find alternatives, they may not be able to meet our requirements on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and production systems, and because many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions of the production process may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Any interruptions that cause any of our websites to be unavailable, reduce our order fulfillment performance or interfere with our manufacturing, technology or customer service operations could result in lost revenue, increased costs, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and brand, and an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Building redundancies into our infrastructure, systems and supply chain to mitigate these risks may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources, in some cases before the volume of our business increases with no assurance that our revenues will increase. We face intense competition. The markets for small business marketing products and services and home and family custom products, including the printing and graphic design market, are intensely competitive, highly fragmented and geographically dispersed. We expect competition to increase in the future. The increased use of the Internet for commerce and other technical advances have allowed traditional providers of these products and services to improve the quality of their offerings, produce and deliver those products and services more efficiently and reach a broader purchasing public. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Current and potential competitors include: • traditional storefront printing and graphic design companies; • office superstores, drug store chains, food retailers and other major retailers targeting small business and consumer markets; • wholesale printers; • online printing and graphic design companies, many of which provide printed products and services similar to ours; • self-service desktop design and publishing using personal computer software with a laser or inkjet printer and specialty paper; • email marketing services companies; • website design and hosting companies; • suppliers of custom apparel, promotional products and customized gifts; • online photo product companies; and • Internet firms and retailers. 22 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, more focus on a given sub-set of our business, existing customer and supplier relationships, or significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. Many of our competitors currently work together, and additional competitors may do so in the future through strategic business agreements or acquisitions. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins as well as loss of market share and brand recognition. Some of our competitors that either already have an online presence or are seeking to establish an online presence may be able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. In addition, larger, more established and better capitalized entities may acquire, invest or partner with online competitors as use of the Internet and other online services increases. Competitors may also develop new or enhanced products, technologies or capabilities that could render many of the products, services and content we offer obsolete or less competitive, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future choose to collaborate with certain of our existing and potential competitors in strategic partnerships that we believe will improve our competitive position and results of operations, such as through a retail in-store or web-based collaborative offering. It is possible, however, that such ventures will be unsuccessful and that our competitive position and results of operations will be adversely affected as a result of such collaboration. Failure to meet our customers’ price expectations would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and are likely to continue to have, a significant impact on our revenues and results of operations. Many factors can significantly impact our pricing strategies, including the costs of running our business, such as production, customer acquisition, marketing and personnel costs, our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, and the effects of inflation. We offer certain free products and services as a means of attracting customers, and we offer substantial pricing discounts as a means of encouraging repeat purchases. These free offers and discounts may not result in an increase in our revenues or the optimization of our profits. If we fail to meet our customers’ price expectations, our business and results of operations will suffer. Failure to protect our network and the confidential information of our customers against security breaches and to address risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Online commerce and communications depend on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Currently, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly, and we retain our customers’ credit card information for a period of time that varies depending on the services we provide to each customer. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of our network or the technology that we use to protect our network and our customer transaction data, such as credit card information. Although we maintain network security insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Any compromise of our network or our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to losses, litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents In addition, we may be liable for fraudulent transactions conducted on our websites, such as through the use of stolen credit card numbers. To date, quarterly losses from payment fraud have not exceeded 1% of total revenues in any quarter, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Our failure to limit fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. We depend on search engines to attract a substantial portion of the customers who visit our websites, and losing these customers would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many customers access our websites by clicking through on search results displayed by search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. If the search engines on which we rely modify their algorithms, terminate their relationships with us or increase the prices at which we may purchase listings, this could increase our costs and result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other more costly resources to replace this traffic, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating and net income and could harm our business. In addition, some of our competitors purchase the term “Vistaprint” and other terms incorporating our proprietary trademarks from Google and other search engines as part of their search listing advertising. Courts do not always side with the trademark owners in cases involving search engines, and Google has refused to prevent companies from purchasing search results that use the trademark “Vistaprint.” As a result, we may not be able to prevent our competitors from advertising to, and directly competing for, customers who search for the term “Vistaprint” on search engines. Various private ‘spam’ blacklisting and similar entities have in the past, and may in the future, interfere with our e-mail solicitation, the operation of our websites and our ability to conduct business. We depend significantly on e-mail to market to and communicate with our customers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or “spam.” Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, as well as the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those companies and individuals, that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. Some of our Internet protocol addresses are currently listed with one or more blacklisting entities despite our belief that our commercial e-mail solicitations comply with all applicable laws. In the future, our other Internet protocol addresses may also be listed with one or more blacklisting entities. We may not be successful in convincing the blacklisting entities to remove us from their lists. Although the blacklisting we have experienced in the past has not had a significant impact on our ability to operate our websites, send commercial e-mail solicitations, or manage or operate our corporate email accounts, it has, from time to time, interfered with our ability to send operational e-mails — such as password reminders, invoices and electronically delivered products — to customers and others, and to send and receive emails to and from our corporate email accounts. In addition, as a result of being blacklisted, we have had disputes with, or concerns raised by, various service providers who perform services for us, including co-location and hosting services, Internet service providers and electronic mail distribution services. We are currently on certain blacklists and there can be no guarantee that we will not be put on additional blacklists in the future or that we will succeed in removing ourselves from blacklists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our websites, and operate and manage our corporate email accounts, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our customers create products that incorporate images, illustrations and fonts that we license from third parties, and any loss of the right to use these licensed materials may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Many of the images, illustrations, and fonts incorporated in the design products and services we offer are the copyrighted property of other parties that we use under license agreements. If one or more of these licenses were terminated, the amount and variety of content available on our websites would be significantly reduced. In such an event, we could experience delays in obtaining and introducing substitute content, which might be available only under less favorable terms, or may not be available at all. The termination of one or more of these licenses covering a significant amount of content could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel, and any of our executives may cease their employment with us at any time with minimal advance notice. The loss of one or more of our key employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan. Acquisitions may be disruptive to our business. Our business and our customer base have been built primarily through organic growth, and while our Supervisory Board and management team have experience making acquisitions, we have limited experience making acquisitions as a company. However, a component of our strategy is to selectively pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies or services in order to expand our capabilities, enter new markets, or increase our market share. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services may be complex, expensive and time consuming and we may not be able to retain key employees of acquired businesses. In addition, acquisitions may lead to reduced earnings if the transaction is dilutive for one or multiple years. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. If we were to raise funds through an equity financing, such a financing would result in dilution to our shareholders. If we were to raise funds through a debt financing, such a financing may subject us to covenants restricting the activities we may undertake in the future. We may be unable to operate any acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate newly acquired businesses, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations could suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies or services to acquire could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Acquisitions could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted by general economic and financial market conditions, and such conditions may increase the other risks that affect our business. Despite recent signs of economic recovery in some markets, many of the markets in which we operate are still in an economic downturn that we believe has had and will continue to have a negative impact on our business. Turmoil in the world’s financial markets materially and adversely impacted the 25 Table of Contents availability of financing to a wide variety of businesses, including micro businesses, and the resulting uncertainty led to reductions in capital investments, marketing expenditures, overall spending levels, future product plans, and sales projections across industries and markets. These trends could have a material and adverse impact on the demand for our products and services and our financial results from operations. The United States government may further increase border controls and impose duties or restrictions on cross-border commerce that may substantially harm our business by impeding our shipments into the United States from our Canadian manufacturing facility. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, we derived 53% of our revenue from sales to customers made through Vistaprint.com, our United States-focused website. We produce substantially all physical products for our United States customers at our facility in Windsor, Ontario, and the United States imposes restrictions on shipping goods into the United States from Canada. The United States also imposes protectionist measures such as customs duties and tariffs that limit free trade, some of which may apply directly to product categories that comprise a material portion of our revenues. The customs laws, rules and regulations that we are required to comply with are complex and subject to unpredictable enforcement and modification. We have from time to time experienced delays in shipping our manufactured products into the United States as a result of these restrictions which have, in some instances, resulted in delayed delivery of orders. In the future, the United States could impose further border controls and restrictions, interpret or apply regulations in a manner unfavorable to the importation of products from outside of the U.S., impose quotas, tariffs or import duties, increase the documentation requirements applicable to cross border shipments or take other actions that have the effect of restricting the flow of goods from Canada and other countries to the United States. For example, if there were a serious threat to U.S. security, such as war or an attack on the United States, the U.S. government could shut down the U.S.-Canadian border for an extended period of time, impose policies that would result in significant Canadian export delays or otherwise disrupt our North American business operations. If we experienced greater difficulty or delays shipping products into the United States or were foreclosed from doing so, or if our costs and expenses materially increased, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which may impede our ability to build brand identity, cause confusion among our customers, damage our reputation and permit others to practice our patented technology, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our trademarks, our websites features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our websites and our production operations. As of June 30, 2011, we had 56 issued patents worldwide. We intend to continue to pursue patent coverage in the United States and other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is justified, appropriate, and cost efficient. There can be no guarantee that any of our pending applications or continuation patent applications will be granted. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future face infringement, invalidity, intellectual property ownership or similar claims brought by third parties with respect to any of our current or future patents. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly, damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our primary brand is “Vistaprint.” As of June 30, 2011, we held trademark registrations for the Vistaprint trademark in 22 jurisdictions, including registrations in our major markets in North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Our competitors or other entities may adopt names or marks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. There are several companies that currently incorporate or may incorporate in the future “Vista” into their company, product or service names. There could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term Vistaprint or our other trademarks, and we may institute such claims against other parties. Any claims or customer confusion related to our trademarks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are costly and could cause us to lose our exclusive rights, subject us to liability or require us to stop some of our business activities. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits or disputes in which third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights or that we improperly obtained or used their confidential or proprietary information. In addition, from time to time we receive letters from third parties who claim to have patent rights that cover aspects of the technology that we use in our business and that the third parties believe we must license in order to continue to use such technology. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and litigation diverts our management’s efforts from managing and growing our business. Potential adversaries may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If any parties successfully claim that our sale, use, manufacturing or importation of technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay significant damages and attorney’s fees, and a court could enjoin us from performing the infringing activity, which could restrict our ability to use certain technologies important to the operation of our business. Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party that claims infringement by us. Any such patent license may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a third party’s patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues, grow our business or maintain profitability. In addition, from time to time, we initiate lawsuits, proceedings or claims to enforce our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable or are licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. There is also a risk that our assertion of intellectual property rights could result in the other party’s seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business in the manner discussed above. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may negatively impact our competitive position and business. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to acquire or maintain domain names for our websites, then we could lose customers, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. We sell our products and services primarily through our websites. We currently own or control a number of Internet domain names used in connection with our various websites, including Vistaprint.com and similar names with alternate URL names, such as .net, .de and .co.uk. Domain names are generally regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. If we are unable to use a domain name in a particular country, then we would be forced to purchase the domain name from the entity that owns or controls it, which we may not be able to do on commercially acceptable terms or at all; incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials and packaging; or elect not to sell products in that country. Any of these results could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear and subject to change. We might not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Vistaprint in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales, value added or other taxes on Internet sales. In many jurisdictions where we sell products and services, we do not collect or have imposed upon us sales, value added or other consumption taxes, which we refer to as indirect taxes. The application of indirect taxes to e-commerce businesses such as Vistaprint is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the Internet and e-commerce, and in many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or e-commerce. Bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that could affect the ability of state governments to require out of state Internet retailers to collect and remit indirect taxes on goods and certain services, and some state governments have imposed or are seeking to impose indirect taxes on Internet sales. The imposition by national, state or local governments, whether within or outside the United States, of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our revenue. Additionally, a successful assertion by one or more governments in jurisdictions where we are not currently collecting sales or value added taxes that we should be, or should have been, collecting indirect taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing products from us, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or otherwise negatively impact our results of operations. Our business is dependent on the Internet, and unfavorable changes in government regulation of the Internet, e-commerce and email marketing could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Due to our dependence on the Internet for our sales, regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce and email marketing may have a greater impact on our operations than other more traditional businesses. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of e-commerce and our ability to compete with traditional graphic designers, printers and small business marketing companies, as well as desktop printing products. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, commercial email, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing many of these issues apply to the Internet and e-commerce, 28 Table of Contents as the vast majority of applicable laws were adopted before the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Bermuda Electronic Transactions Act 1999, the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the U.S. CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts, and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. We face judicial and regulatory challenges to our practice of offering free products and services, which, if successful, could hinder our ability to attract customers and generate revenue. We regularly offer free products and services as an inducement for customers to try our products and services. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers — for example, that customers are required to pay shipping and processing charges to take advantage of a free product offer — our customers, competitors, governmental regulators and others in Europe, the United States and other countries have in the past complained and filed claims with, and initiated inquiries by, governmental and standards bodies that our free offers are misleading or do not comply with applicable legislation or regulation, and we may receive similar complaints, claims and inquiries in the future. If we are compelled or determine to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers as the result of any such actions, our business prospects and results of operations could be materially harmed. If we were required to review the content that our customers incorporate into our products and interdict the shipment of products that violate copyright protections or other laws, our costs would significantly increase, which would harm our results of operations. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, our operations do not involve any human-based review of content for the vast majority of our sales. Although our websites’ terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to reproduce a given content and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content for a product order that we produce that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene, or otherwise objectionable or illegal under the laws of the jurisdiction(s) where that customer lives or where we operate. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction, which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, if we were held liable for actions of our customers, we could be required to pay substantial penalties, fines or monetary damages. The third party membership programs previously offered on our website may continue to draw customer complaints, litigation and governmental inquiries, which can be costly and could hurt our reputation. We previously offered on our website third party membership discount programs, some of which have been, and may continue to be, the subject of consumer complaints, litigation, and governmental regulatory actions alleging that the enrollment and billing practices involved in the programs violate various consumer protection laws or are otherwise deceptive. Although we removed all such membership discount program offerings from our websites as of November 2009 and terminated our relationship with the third party merchant responsible for these programs, we continue to receive complaints from our customers and inquiries by state attorneys general and government agencies regarding these programs. Any private or governmental claims or actions that may be 29 Table of Contents brought against us relating to these third party membership programs could result in our being obligated to pay substantial damages or incurring substantial legal fees in defending claims and have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, such a defense may result in distraction of management and significant costs. In addition, customer dissatisfaction or damage to our reputation as a result of these claims could have a negative impact on our brand, revenues and profitability. We are subject to customer payment-related risks. We accept payments for our products and services on our websites by a variety of methods, including credit or debit card, PayPal, check, wire transfer or other methods. In many geographic regions, we rely on one or two third party companies to provide payment processing services. If these companies became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, then we would need to find and engage replacement providers, which we may not be able to do on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, or to process the payments ourselves, which could be costly and time consuming. Either of these scenarios could disrupt our business. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud risk. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins or require that we charge our customers more for our products. We are also subject to payment card association and similar operating rules and requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules and requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Although we maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to retain security authentication certificates, which are supplied by third party providers over which we exercise little or no control, our business could be harmed. We are dependent on a limited number of third party providers of website security authentication certificates that may be necessary for some of our customers’ web browsers to properly access our websites and upon which many of our customers otherwise rely in deciding whether to purchase products and services from us. Despite any contractual protections we may have, these third party providers can disable or revoke, and in the past have disabled or revoked, our security certificates without our consent, which would render our websites inaccessible to some of our customers and could discourage other customers from accessing our sites, unless we are able to procure a replacement certificate from one of a limited number of alternative third party providers. Any interruption in our customers’ ability or willingness to access our websites if our security certificates are disabled or otherwise unavailable for an extended period of time could result in a material loss of revenue and profits and damage to our brand. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Challenges by various tax authorities to our complex international structure could, if successful, increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our earnings. We are a Dutch limited liability company that operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties and regulations in the countries in which we operate. Our income taxes are based upon the applicable tax laws and tax rates in the countries in which we operate and earn income as well as upon our operating structures in these countries. Many countries’ tax laws and international treaties impose taxation upon entities that conduct a trade or business or operate through a permanent establishment in those countries. However, these applicable laws or treaties are subject to interpretation. From time to time, we are subject to tax audits and claims by the tax authorities in these countries that a greater portion of the income of the Vistaprint N.V. group should be subject to income or other tax in their respective jurisdictions. For more information about audits to which we are currently subject refer to Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 10 — Income Taxes,” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. This could result in an increase to our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations. A change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. We continue to assess the impact of various international tax proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties between the Netherlands and other countries that could result in a material impact on our income taxes. We cannot predict whether any specific legislation will be enacted or the terms of any such legislation. However, if such proposals were enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on us, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our intercompany arrangements may be challenged, resulting in higher taxes or penalties and an adverse effect on our earnings. We operate pursuant to written intercompany service and related agreements, which we also refer to as transfer pricing agreements, among Vistaprint N.V. and its subsidiaries. These agreements establish transfer prices for production, marketing, management, technology development and other services performed by these subsidiaries for other group companies. Transfer prices are prices that one company in a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be consistent with those between unrelated companies dealing at arm’s length. With the exception of the transfer pricing arrangements applicable to our Dutch, French and Australian operations, our transfer pricing arrangements are not binding on applicable tax authorities and no official authority in any other country has made a determination as to whether or not we are operating in compliance with its transfer pricing laws. If tax authorities in any country were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arm’s length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices. A reallocation of taxable income from a lower tax jurisdiction to a higher tax jurisdiction would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. 31 Table of Contents Our Articles of Association, Dutch law and the independent foundation, Stichting Continuïteit Vistaprint, may make it difficult to replace or remove management, may inhibit or delay a change of control or may dilute your voting power. Our Articles of Association, or Articles, as governed by Dutch law limit our shareholders’ ability to suspend or dismiss the members of our management board and supervisory board or to overrule our supervisory board’s nominees to our management board and supervisory board by requiring a vote of two thirds of the votes cast representing more than 50% of the outstanding ordinary shares to do so under most circumstances. As a result, there may be circumstances in which shareholders may not be able to remove members of our management board or supervisory board even if holders of a majority of our ordinary shares favor doing so. In addition, we have established an independent foundation, Stichting Continuïteit Vistaprint, or the “Foundation,” to safeguard the interests of Vistaprint N.V. and its stakeholders, which include but are not limited to our shareholders, and to assist in maintaining Vistaprint’s continuity and independence. To this end, we have granted the Foundation a call option pursuant to which the Foundation may acquire a number of preferred shares equal to the same number of ordinary shares then outstanding, which is designed to provide a protective measure against unsolicited take-over bids for Vistaprint and other hostile threats. If the Foundation were to exercise the call option, it may prevent a change of control or delay or prevent a takeover attempt, including a takeover attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Exercise of the preferred share option would also effectively dilute the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares by one half. We have limited flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management. Dutch law requires shareholder approval for the issuance of shares and grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares. In August 2009, our shareholders granted our supervisory board and management board the authority to issue ordinary shares and preferred shares as the boards determine appropriate, without obtaining specific shareholder approval for each issuance, and to limit or exclude shareholders’ preemptive rights. However, this authorization expires in August 2014. Although we intend to seek re-approval from our shareholders before the 2014 expiration date, we may not succeed in obtaining this re-approval. In addition, subject to specified exceptions, Dutch law requires shareholder approval for many corporate actions, such as the approval of dividends and authorization to repurchase outstanding shares. Situations may arise where the flexibility to issue shares, pay dividends, repurchase shares or take other corporate actions without a shareholder vote would be beneficial to us, but is not available under Dutch law. Because of our corporate structure, our shareholders may find it difficult to pursue legal remedies against the members of our supervisory board or management board. Our Articles and our internal corporate affairs are governed by Dutch law, and the rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of our supervisory board and management board are different from those established under United States laws. For example, class action lawsuits and derivative lawsuits are generally not available under Dutch law, and our supervisory board and management board are responsible for acting in the best interests of the company, its business and all of its stakeholders generally (including employees, customers and creditors), not just shareholders. Furthermore, we are obligated to indemnify the members of our supervisory board and management board against liabilities for their good faith actions in connection with their service on either board, subject to various exceptions. As a result, our shareholders may find it more difficult to protect their interests against actions by members of our supervisory board or management board than they would if we were a U.S. corporation. 32 Table of Contents Because of our corporate structure, our shareholders may find it difficult to enforce claims based on United States federal or state laws, including securities liabilities, against us or our management team. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and the vast majority of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, some of our officers and management board members reside outside of the United States. In most cases, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by a U.S. federal or state court would not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. The party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered would need to bring a new suit in the Netherlands and petition the Dutch court to enforce the final judgment rendered in the United States, and there can be no assurance that a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us or our management team in such a suit or in any other lawsuit predicated solely upon U.S. securities laws. In addition, because most of our assets are located outside of the United States, it could be difficult for investors to place a lien on our assets in connection with a claim of liability under U.S. laws. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our management team, enforce U.S. court judgments obtained against us or our management team outside of the U.S., or enforce rights predicated upon the U.S. securities laws. We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Dutch withholding tax. A Dutch withholding tax may be levied on dividends and similar distributions made by Vistaprint N.V. to its shareholders at the statutory rate of 15% if we cannot structure such distributions as being made to shareholders in relation to a reduction of par value, which would be non-taxable for Dutch withholding tax purposes. We have repurchased our shares and may seek to repurchase additional shares in the future. Under our Dutch Advanced Tax Ruling, a repurchase of shares should not result in any Dutch withholding tax if we hold the repurchased shares in treasury for the purpose of issuing shares pursuant to certain employee share awards or for the funding of acquisitions. However, if the shares cannot be used for these purposes, or the Dutch tax authorities challenge the use of the shares for these purposes, such a repurchase of shares for the purposes of capital reduction may be treated as a partial liquidation subject to the 15% Dutch withholding tax to be levied on the difference between our recognized paid in capital for Dutch tax purposes and the redemption price. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company for United States tax purposes, which may subject United States shareholders to adverse tax consequences. If our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed levels provided by law for any taxable year, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. If we are treated as a PFIC, U.S. holders of our ordinary shares would be subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their ordinary shares. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the tax year ended June 30, 2011 and we expect that we will not become a PFIC in the foreseeable future. However, whether we are treated as a PFIC depends on questions of fact as to our assets and revenues that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a PFIC for our current tax year or for any subsequent year. If a United States shareholder acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to increased United States taxation under the “controlled foreign corporation” rules. Each “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation that is a “controlled foreign corporation,” or CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that 33 Table of Contents owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if one or more 10% U.S. Shareholders together own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting shares of the non-U.S. corporation or more than 50% of the total value of all shares of the corporation on any day during the taxable year of the corporation. The rules defining ownership for these purposes are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. For taxable years in which we are a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more, each of our 10% U.S. Shareholders will be required to include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of our subpart F income, even if the subpart F income is not distributed to enable such taxpayer to satisfy this tax liability. Based upon our existing share ownership, we do not believe we are a CFC. However, whether we are treated as a CFC depends on questions of fact as to our share ownership that can only be determined at the end of each tax year. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will not be treated as a CFC for our current tax year or for any subsequent year. Our tax rate may increase if our profitability declines. Additionally, we will pay taxes even if we are not profitable on a consolidated basis, which would harm our results of operations. The intercompany service and related agreements among Vistaprint N.V. and our direct and indirect subsidiaries ensure that the subsidiaries realize profits based on their operating expenses. As a result, if the Vistaprint group is less profitable, or even not profitable on a consolidated basis, the majority of our subsidiaries will be profitable and incur income taxes in their respective jurisdictions. In periods of declining operating profitability or losses on a consolidated basis this structure will increase our tax rate or our consolidated losses and further harm our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 