Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business If we cannot obtain additional funding, our product development efforts may be reduced or discontinued and we may not be able to continue our operations. Our audited financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2012 were prepared under the assumption that we would continue our operations as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a “going concern” explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 indicating that we have incurred recurring losses from operations and have no current source of revenues and limited sources of financing, and that these factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. While we believe that our existing cash balances, which were approximately $6.2 million as of June 30, 2012 will be sufficient to fund our operations until early calendar year 2013, we will need substantial additional funds to progress the clinical trial program for our drug candidates and to develop any additional compounds. Our ability to raise additional funds is uncertain; such funds may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. In the event that we do not obtain additional capital, there is a substantial doubt of our being able to continue our operations as a going concern. If we cannot continue our operations as a going concern, our stockholders would likely lose most or all of their investment in us. We have limited existing financial resources and will need substantial additional funds to progress the clinical trial program for our drug candidates ME-143, ME-344 and Pracinostat and to develop new compounds. The actual amount of funds we will need will be determined by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. We have limited cash resources and liquidity. We will need substantial additional funds to progress the clinical trial program for our drug candidates ME-143, ME-344 and Pracinostat and to develop any additional compounds. The factors which will determine the actual amount of funds that we will need to progress the clinical trial programs for ME-143, ME-344 and Pracinostat may include the following: • the number of sites included in the trials; • the length of time required to enroll suitable patients; • the number of patients who participate in the trials and the rate that they are recruited; • the number of treatment cycles patients complete while they are enrolled in the trials; and • the efficacy and safety profile of the product. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operations. Also, if we raise more funds by selling additional securities, the ownership interests of holders of our securities will be diluted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing sufficient to meet our future capital and operating needs. We intend to sell additional shares of common stock, and securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of our common stock to satisfy our capital and operating needs. If we sell shares in the future, the prices at which we sell these future shares will vary, and these variations may be significant. Purchasers of the shares we sell pursuant to future offerings, as well as our existing stockholders, will experience significant dilution if we sell these future shares at prices significantly below the price at which previous shareholders invested. The investors in the May 2011 private placement will have the right to acquire up to 35% of any securities we offer through September 28, 2013. Future sales of our common stock, including upon conversion of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and exercise of our outstanding warrants, may depress the market price of our common stock and cause stockholders to experience dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including upon exercise of outstanding warrants and the conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of June 30, 2012, we had outstanding Series A warrants exercisable for an aggregate amount of approximately 2,460,617 shares of common stock at $1.00 per share, outstanding warrants issued in May 2012 in conjunction with our Rights Offering exercisable for 2,915,152 shares of common stock at $1.19 per share, and outstanding warrants to purchase 248,003 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $21.70 to $36.00 per share. The 1,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by Novogen are initially convertible into an aggregate of 4,827,000 shares of our common stock. Additionally, we have agreed to register for resale the 1,174,536 shares of common stock issued to S*Bio in connection with our acquisition of certain assets and intellectual property, including those related to Pracinostat, from S*Bio in August 2012. We intend to seek additional capital through one or more additional equity transactions; however, such transactions will be subject to market conditions and there can be no assurance any such transactions will be completed. On July 27, 2012, Novogen announced that it had entered into a merger agreement with Kai Medical, a U.S-based company, incorporated in Delaware. The agreement is subject to Novogen shareholder approval. In addition to the merger agreement with Kai Medical, Novogen announced that, subject to shareholder approval, it will undertake a capital reduction and in specie distribution to the Novogen shareholders of the shares of the Company that it owns. This distribution will allow Novogen shareholders to own their proportionate share of the Company’s common stock now held by Novogen. Negative global economic conditions may pose challenges to our business strategy, which relies on access to capital from the markets or collaborators. Negative conditions in the global economy, including credit markets and the financial services industry, have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may negatively impact our ability to complete financing transactions. The duration and severity of these conditions is uncertain, as is the extent to which they may adversely affect our business and the business of current and prospective vendors and collaborators. If negative global economic conditions persist or worsen, we may be unable to secure additional funding to sustain our operations or to find suitable collaborators to advance our internal programs, even if we achieve positive results from our research and development efforts. 18 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and are likely to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage and developmental companies. We were incorporated in December 2000, and have been in operation since May 2002. We have incurred net losses of $85,111,000 from our inception through June 30, 2012, including net losses of $7,523,000 and $6,781,000 for the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future. We have not yet commercialized any drug candidates and cannot be sure that we will ever be able to do so, or that we may ever become profitable. Our stockholders may not realize a benefit from the purchase of intellectual property commensurate with the associated ownership dilution experienced. In May 2011, we completed the acquisition of certain assets used in or generated under or in connection with the discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of intellectual property and products based on the field of isoflavonoid technology and on compounds known as isoflavones, including those related to the drug candidates ME-143 and ME-344 (the “Isoflavone-related Assets”), from Novogen. Additionally, in August 2012, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and intellectual property, including those related to Pracinostat, from S*BIO. If we are unable to realize the expected strategic and financial benefits from the purchase of intellectual property, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution of their ownership interest upon the conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock issued to Novogen to acquire the Isoflavone-related Assets, which may be converted at any time and from time to time without the payment of any additional consideration, and as a result of the issuance of shares of common stock to S*Bio to acquire certain assets and intellectual property, including those related to Pracinostat, without receiving any commensurate benefit. Upon consummation of the Isoflavone Transaction, we issued to Novogen 1,000 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock which are initially convertible into an aggregate of 4,827,000 shares of our common stock. In addition, upon our achievement of certain development milestones relating to the Isoflavone-related Assets, the aggregate number of shares into which the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted would increase to 9,654,000. Although in the Isoflavone Asset Purchase Agreement Novogen made certain representations and warranties regarding its intellectual property rights in respect of the Isoflavone-related Assets, Novogen’s indemnification obligations, which were limited and payable solely by the forfeiture of our securities issued as consideration in the Isoflavone Transaction, expired on June 30, 2011. Similarly, in the asset purchase agreement relating to the acquisition of certain assets and intellectual property from S*BIO, S*BIO made certain representations and warranties regarding its intellectual property rights to such assets; however, its indemnification obligations with respect to such representations and warranties are limited. Accordingly, we do not expect to be adequately compensated, if at all, for the loss of any such intellectual property rights acquired in the Isoflavone Transaction or in the acquisition from S*Bio. The results of pre-clinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current drug candidates may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. Pre-clinical studies and Phase I and Phase II clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a drug candidate, but rather to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and to understand the drug candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. Favorable results in early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials, including continuing pre-clinical studies and large-scale Phase III clinical trials, and our drug candidates in later-stage trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through earlier-stage trials. Unfavorable results from ongoing pre-clinical studies or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials, or abandonment of a clinical program. Pre-clinical and clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals or commercialization. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse 19 Table of Contents medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated or terminated, or a clinical program to be abandoned. Final approval by regulatory authorities of our drug candidates for commercial use may be delayed, limited or prevented, any of which would adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. We will not generate any operating revenue until we successfully license or commercialize one of our drug candidates. Currently, we have drug candidates at different stages of development, and each will need to successfully complete a number of studies and obtain regulatory approval before potential commercialization. In particular, any of the following factors may serve to delay, limit or prevent the final approval by regulatory authorities of our drug candidates for commercial use: • ME-143, ME-344 and Pracinostat are in the early stages of development, and we will need to conduct significant clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy of these drug candidates before applications for marketing can be filed with the FDA, or with the regulatory authorities of other countries; • data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical studies can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • development and testing of product formulation, including identification of suitable excipients, or chemical additives intended to facilitate delivery of our drug candidates; • it may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates, and failure can occur at any stage of this process; and • negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. The successful development of any of these drug candidates is uncertain and, accordingly, we may never commercialize any of these drug candidates or generate revenue. Even if we receive regulatory approval to commercialize our drug candidates, our ability to generate revenues from any resulting products will be subject to a variety of risks, many of which are out of our control. Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, resulting products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from such products will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of our drugs and competitive drugs; • actual and perceived efficacy and safety of our drug candidates; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; • price of our future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; • the effect of current and future healthcare laws on our drug candidates; and • availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payers. If any of our drugs are approved and fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. 20 Table of Contents We may not be able to establish the contractual arrangements necessary to develop, market and distribute our product candidates. A key part of our business plan is to establish contractual relationships with third parties to package, market and distribute our product candidates. Potential partners may be discouraged by our limited operating history. Similarly, potential counterparties may not wish to enter into agreements with us due to Novogen’s current equity position as our majority stockholder. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable licensing or other agreements for the future exploitation of our drug product candidates, including continued clinical development, manufacture or marketing. If we are unable to successfully contract for these services, or if arrangements for these services are terminated, we may have to delay our commercialization program which will adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than our drug candidates. The development of drug candidates is highly competitive. A number of other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development that are intended for the same therapeutic indications for which our drug candidates are being developed. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized sooner. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our compounds may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors developing oncology drugs have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us and our service providers, to recruit qualified personnel, and with us to attract partners for joint ventures and to license technologies that are competitive with us. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render our technologies or our drug candidates obsolete or non-competitive. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our pre-clinical studies. If those parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all. In the course of our discovery, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, we rely on third parties, including laboratories, investigators, clinical contract research organizations, or CROs, and manufacturers, to perform critical services for us. For example, we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and many of our pre-clinical studies. CROs are responsible for many aspects of the trials, including finding and enrolling subjects for testing and administering the trials. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate, and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. These third parties may not be available when we need them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner, and we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. These independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. In addition, if such third parties fail to perform their obligations in compliance with our clinical trial protocols or GCPs, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements or may need to be 21 Table of Contents repeated. As a result of our dependence on third parties, we may face delays or failures outside of our direct control. These risks also apply to the development activities of collaborators, and we do not control their research and development, clinical trial or regulatory activities. We have no direct control over the cost of manufacturing our drug candidates. Increases in the cost of manufacturing our drug candidates would increase our costs of conducting clinical trials and could adversely affect our future profitability. We do not intend to manufacture our drug product candidates ourselves, and we will rely on third parties for our drug supplies both for clinical trials and for commercial quantities in the future. We have taken the strategic decision not to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients (“API”) for our drug candidates, as these can be more economically supplied by third parties with particular expertise in this area. We have identified contract facilities that are registered with the FDA, have a track record of large scale API manufacture, and have already invested in capital and equipment. We have no direct control over the cost of manufacturing our product candidates. If the cost of manufacturing increases, or if the cost of the materials used increases, these costs will be passed on to us, making the cost of conducting clinical trials more expensive. Increases in manufacturing costs could adversely affect our future profitability if we are unable to pass all of the increased costs along to our customers. We face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes it to the risk of product liability claims. This risk is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of human therapeutic products. We have product liability insurance coverage of $5 million. The coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities, or claims may exceed our insurance limits. If we cannot or do not sufficiently insure against potential product liability claims, we may be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business development and commercialization efforts. Our financial results are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. A portion of our expenditures and potential revenue may be spent or derived outside of the United States. As a result, fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which we operate may increase our costs or reduce our potential revenue. At present, we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between particular foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. Risks Related to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and could decline in value and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The trading price of our common stock could be highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • failure to successfully develop drug candidates ME-143, ME-344 and Pracinostat; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • new products introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • expiration or termination of licenses research contracts or other collaboration agreements; 22 Table of Contents • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and genomics industries; • instability in the stock market as a result of current global events; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • the liquidity of any market for our securities; • additional sales by us of shares of our common stock; and • threatened or actual delisting of our common stock from a national stock exchange. Equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. In addition, changes in economic conditions in the U.S., Europe or globally, particularly in the context of current global events, could impact upon our ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside our control and may result in material adverse impacts on our business or our results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of shares of our common stock, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. In addition, if the market price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, our stockholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. Further, certain institutional investors are restricted from investing in shares priced below $5.00. This inability to use shares of our common stock as collateral and the inability of certain institutional investors to invest in our shares may depress demand and lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay, and have not paid, any cash dividends on our shares of common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock, and we intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their investment unless the value of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares. Our common stock may be delisted from Nasdaq. Under Nasdaq rules, companies listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market are required to maintain a share price of at least $1.00 per share and if the share price declines below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, then the listed company would have 180 days to regain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum. On March 27, 2012, we received notice from Nasdaq stating that, based on the closing bid price for the Company’s common stock for the last 30 consecutive business days, we no longer meet the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for continued inclusion on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The notification letter states that we will be afforded a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until September 24, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In order to regain compliance, shares of our common stock must maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during the grace period. We will not regain compliance during the initial 180 calendar day grace period; however, we may be eligible for additional time to demonstrate compliance with the minimum bid price requirement if we continue to meet certain other Nasdaq listing requirements. In the event that our share price remains below $1.00, we may be required to take action, such as a reverse stock split, in order to comply with the Nasdaq rules that may be in effect at the time. 23 Table of Contents In addition, under Nasdaq rules, we are required to maintain minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million. If our stockholders’ equity falls below $2.5 million, we would have 45 calendar days from the date of notification by Nasdaq to submit a plan to regain compliance. If the plan is accepted, Nasdaq can grant an extension of up to 180 calendar days from the date of the original notification for us to evidence compliance with this requirement. If we are not able to comply with the listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock will be delisted from Nasdaq and an associated decrease in liquidity in the market for our common stock will occur. We will have broad discretion over the use of the net proceeds from any exercise of outstanding warrants. We will have broad discretion to use the net proceeds to us upon any exercise of outstanding warrants, and investors in our stock will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors and management regarding the application of these proceeds. Although we expect to use a substantial portion of the net proceeds from any exercise of the warrants for general corporate purposes and progression of our clinical trial program, we have not allocated these net proceeds for specific purposes. We are authorized to issue blank check preferred stock, which could adversely affect the holders of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue blank check preferred stock with rights potentially senior to those of our common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock. Although our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, our only outstanding preferred stock, does not contain dividend or voting preferences. the issuance of a class of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our shares, or making a change in control of us more difficult. Laws, rules and regulations relating to public companies may be costly and impact our ability to attract and retain directors and executive officers. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including rules adopted by the SEC and by Nasdaq, may result in increased costs to us. These laws, rules and regulations could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot estimate accurately the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these laws, rules and regulations. Our executive officers and directors may sell shares of their stock, and these sales could adversely affect our stock price. Sales of our stock by our executive officers and directors, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Our executive officers and directors may sell stock in the future, either as part, or outside, of trading plans under Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, Rule 10b5-1. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property Our commercial success is dependent, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and preserving trade secrets, which cannot be guaranteed. Patent protection and trade secret protection are important to our business and our future will depend, in part on our ability maintain trade secret protection, obtain patents and operate without infringing the 24 Table of Contents proprietary rights of others both in the United States and abroad. Litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Prior to the Isoflavone Transaction, Novogen had applied for patents in a number of countries with respect to the use of their isoflavone compounds, including Phenoxodiol, Triphendiol, ME-143, NV-128 and ME-344, for the treatment, prevention or cure of cancer and methods of production of Phenoxodiol. We acquired both issued patents and pending patent applications from Novogen in relation to these technologies, which we previously licensed from Novogen. Additionally, in August 2012 we acquired patents and patent applications related to Pracinostat from S*Bio. The patent applications may not proceed to grant or may be amended to reduce the scope of protection of any patent granted. The applications and patents may also be opposed or challenged by third parties. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain effective patent protection for our compounds and their use in treating, preventing, or curing cancer, and to successfully defend patent rights in those technologies against third-party challenges. As patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until published or issued and as publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that Novogen was the first to make the inventions covered by its pending patent applications or issued patents that we acquired or that it was the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Additionally, the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents or their enforceability cannot be predicted. We cannot be sure that, should any patents issue, we will be provided with adequate protection against potentially competitive products. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that should patents issue, they will be of commercial value to us, or that private parties, including competitors, will not successfully challenge our patents or circumvent our patent position in the United States or abroad. Claims by other companies that we infringe on their proprietary technology may result in liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and patents have been applied for by, and issued to, other parties relating to products competitive with the compounds that we have acquired. Therefore, ME-143, ME-344, Pracinostat and any other drug candidates may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of other parties existing now and in the future. Furthermore, to the extent that we or our consultants or research collaborators use intellectual property owned by others in work performed for us, disputes may also arise as to the rights in such intellectual property or in resulting know-how and inventions. An adverse claim could subject us to significant liabilities to such other parties and/or require disputed rights to be licensed from such other parties. We have contracted formulation development and manufacturing process development work for our product candidates. This process has identified a number of excipients, or additives to improve drug delivery, which may be used in the formulations. Excipients, among other things, perform the function of a carrier of the active drug ingredient. Some of these identified excipients or carriers may be included in third party patents in some countries. We intend to seek a license if we decide to use a patented excipient in the marketed product or we may choose one of those excipients that does not have a license requirement. We cannot be sure that any license required under any such patents or proprietary rights would be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses, we may encounter delays in product market introductions, or may find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses may be precluded. We have not conducted any searches or made any independent investigations of the existence of any patents or proprietary rights of other parties. 25 Table of Contents We may be subject to substantial costs stemming from our defense against third-party intellectual property infringement claims. Third parties may assert that we are using their proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also have or obtain patents and may claim that technologies licensed to or used by us infringe their patents. If we are required to defend patent infringement actions brought by third parties, or if we sue to protect our own patent rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs and managerial attention may be diverted from business operations even if the outcome is not adverse to us. In addition, any legal action that seeks damages or an injunction to stop us from carrying on our commercial activities relating to the affected technologies could subject us to monetary liability and require us or any third party licensors to obtain a license to continue to use the affected technologies. We cannot predict whether we would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Risks Related to our Relationship with Novogen As our majority stockholder, Novogen has the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, and Novogen’s interests may conflict with our or our other stockholders’ interests. As of September 17, 2012, Novogen beneficially owned approximately 60% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, Novogen owns 1,000 shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock which are initially convertible into 4,827,000 shares of our common stock, which would increase Novogen’s ownership percentage to approximately 67%. In addition, upon our achievement of certain development milestones relating to the Isoflavone-related Assets, the aggregate number of shares into which the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may be converted would increase to 9,654,000, which would increase Novogen’s ownership percentage to approximately 72%. As a result, Novogen will have the ability to effectively determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of its assets. Novogen will have the ability to effectively control our management and affairs. Novogen’s interests may not always be the same as those of our other stockholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our securities by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender, offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or • selling us to a third party. On July 27, 2012, Novogen announced that it had entered into a merger agreement with Kai Medical, a U.S.- based company, incorporated in Delaware. The agreement is subject to shareholder approval. In addition to the merger agreement with Kai Medical, Novogen announced that, subject to shareholder approval, it will undertake a capital reduction and in specie distribution to the Novogen shareholders of the shares of the Company that it owns. Novogen has stated that this distribution will allow Novogen shareholders to own their proportionate share of the the Companys common shares now held by Novogen. We cannot be certain that any such distribution will be made in accordance with Novogen’s stated plans, or at all. 26 Table of Contents In the event that Novogen undergoes a change in control while remaining our controlling stockholder, or sells or distributes our shares, we may become subject to the control and influence of new controlling stockholders who may have views regarding the development of our business that differ from the development strategies we are currently pursuing, and Novogen may not continue to make investments in us or otherwise provide us with financial support. Although Novogen has publicly announced plans to distribute its shares of the Companys common stock to Novogen shareholders, subject to shareholder approval, in the event that Novogen undergoes a change in control while remaining our controlling stockholder, we will become subject to the control and influence of Novogen’s new controlling stockholder who will have the ability to indirectly determine the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval through its control of Novogen. This entity may have views regarding the development of our business that differ from the development strategies we are currently pursuing. Such controlling stockholder may cause Novogen to use its influence and voting power to change the direction in which we are developing our business. Such changes may include, but are not limited to, a decreased focus on the development of any of our current drug candidates and an increased focus on the development of alternative drug candidates, which may or may not be targeted to treat cancers. In addition, Novogen has provided financial support to the Company from time to time, including the purchase of an aggregate of $4 million of our common stock in the second half of calendar year 2011 and an additional $4 million of common stock and warrants in connection with our rights offering that was completed in May 2012. In the event Novogen effects the proposed distribution of its shares of our common stock to its shareholders, Novogen may not continue to make investments in us or otherwise provide financial support. One of our directors is the Chairman of the Board of Novogen Limited, which may create a conflict of interest as well as prevent him from devoting his full attention to us. One of our board members, Mr. William Rueckert, currently serves as the Chairman of the Board of Novogen, our majority shareholder. Simultaneous service as a Novogen director could create, or appear to create, a conflict of interest when such director is presented with decisions that could have different implications for us and Novogen. His responsibilities could prevent him from devoting his full attention to us, which could be harmful to the development of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 