Risk Factors You should consider carefully all of the information in this annual report, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks and the trading price of our ADSs or ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks. Risks Relating to Our Business A substantial portion of our business depends on mobile telecommunications operators in China, and any loss or deterioration of our relationships may result in severe disruptions to our business operations and the loss of a significant portion of our revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the provision of wireless Internet services. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 wireless Internet services revenue represented approximately 92.0%, 93.9% and 90.7%, respectively, of our total revenues. Because our current business plan is to further expand our wireless Internet services and our subscriber base, we expect to continue to rely on wireless Internet services to generate a significant portion of our revenues. We rely primarily on the networks and gateways of China Mobile and China Unicom to provide our wireless Internet services. Thus, we face certain risks in conducting our wireless Internet services business, such as the following: • China Mobile and China Unicom currently are the main mobile telecommunications operators in China that have platforms for wireless Internet services. Our agreements with them are generally for terms of twelve months or less and generally do not have automatic renewal provisions. If neither of them is willing to continue to cooperate with us, we will not be able to conduct our existing wireless Internet services business. • Our agreements with mobile telecommunications operators are subject to negotiation upon renewal. Some mobile telecommunications operators increased their share of revenues in the past. We cannot assure you that mobile telecommunications operators will not demand more changes to our revenue-sharing arrangements in the future. If any of the mobile telecommunications operators decides to change its content or transmission fees or its share of revenue, or does not comply with the terms of the agreements, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. • The mobile telecommunications operators have launched competing services, some of which are being provided on a complimentary basis, and they may launch additional competing services in the future. In addition, mobile telecommunications operators may discontinue entirely the use of external content aggregators such as ourselves at any time. Due to our reliance on the mobile telecommunications operators for our wireless Internet services, any loss or deterioration of our relationship or any dispute or proceeding with any of the mobile telecommunications operators may result in severe disruptions to our business operations, the loss of a significant portion of our revenue and a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition or results of operations may be materially affected by the changes in policies or guidelines of the mobile telecommunications operators. The mobile telecommunications operators in China may, from time to time, issue operating policies or guidelines that request or state their preferences for specified actions to be taken by all wireless Internet service providers using their platforms. Because of our reliance on the mobile telecommunications operators, a significant change in their policies or guidelines may have a material effect on us. For example, in recent years some mobile telecommunications operators have: • extended the payment cycle to service providers from two months to three months; -5- Table of Contents • imposed stricter regulations over wireless Internet content and the quality of wireless Internet products and services; and • imposed various penalties on service providers in connection with their wireless Internet content and business practices. For example, effective January 1, 2005, China Mobile changed its billing policy so that we can no longer collect revenue with respect to undeliverable multimedia messaging services, or MMS messages. Previously, MMS messages that were undeliverable because the recipient’s handset was turned off, out of the network service area or not equipped to handle MMS messages were forwarded to an Internet mailbox, and we were entitled to collect revenue in connection with the message. Following the adoption of this new policy, our MMS revenues decreased significantly, although they subsequently rebounded. In 2005, China Mobile also began canceling subscriptions of users who have not accessed their wireless Internet service subscriptions for a certain period of time or who fail to pay China Mobile or its provincial subsidiaries. In July 2006, China Mobile began implementing new policies applicable to all wireless Internet service providers including: • a one-month free-trial period for all new short messaging service, or SMS, MMS and wireless application protocol, or WAP subscriptions; • a requirement that new subscribers to wireless Internet services shall confirm twice, in response to reminders from China Mobile, that they wish to start subscriptions; • sending a reminder to existing subscribers about their subscriptions and the fees they are being charged. Certain provincial subsidiaries of China Mobile including Guangdong Mobile, one of China Mobile’s largest subsidiaries, will not continue to charge existing subscribers unless they respond to such reminder notices by confirming their intent to subscribe; and • canceling WAP subscriptions that have been inactive for more than four months. China Unicom also began requiring subscribers to wireless Internet services to double confirm their subscriptions during the quarter ended September 30, 2006. As a result of the 2006 policies, our SMS and WAP revenues decreased significantly during the second half of 2006 and first quarter of 2007. As of January 2007, China Mobile increased its share of the fees we generate by providing IVR services over its networks from 15% to 30%. In addition, in May 2007, China Mobile introduced a new practice of sending fee reminders to its WAP service users when they request downloads of WAP pages onto their mobile handsets and seeking their confirmations before such download requests are processed. We expect this new practice to have a significant adverse effect on our WAP business in particular and our wireless value-added service business as a whole. These and other changes in policies or guidelines have resulted and may further result in lower revenues or additional operating costs for us. We cannot assure you that our financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected by any policy or guideline change by the mobile telecommunications operators in the future. We may be subject to adverse actions for any breach or perceived breach by us of the policies or guidelines imposed by the mobile telecommunications operators with respect to content provided on or linked through our websites. The mobile telecommunications operators in China may impose policies or guidelines to govern or restrict the content provided by all wireless Internet services providers, including content developed by us or content supplied by others to us. The mobile telecommunications operators from time to time have requested wireless Internet services providers, including us, to remove content deemed objectionable or links to or from websites with certain categories of content, including content they may deem to be sexually -6- Table of Contents explicit. We aggregate and develop content that we consider attractive to our targeted user base, and we cannot assure you that the mobile telecommunications operators will not from time to time find portions of our content to be objectionable. In addition, the mobile telecommunications operators have in recent years enforced their policies with respect to content control, customer service and promotion activities more rigorously than in the past. In the third quarter of 2004, the relative contribution of our interactive voice response, or IVR services to our total revenue decreased from prior quarters because sanctions were imposed on the IVR businesses of certain wireless Internet services providers, and prudent operating practice required a reduction in the overall activity in IVR services with mobile telecommunications operators. In the case of a breach or perceived breach of such policies or guidelines, the mobile telecommunications operators may require us to reduce or curtail the content on our Internet portal, which may reduce our portal traffic, and the mobile telecommunications operators may have the right to impose monetary fines upon us, or terminate our agreements with them. In addition, we would be liable to the mobile telecommunications operators for their economic losses pursuant to our agreements with these operators if we were found to be in breach of the policies or guidelines promulgated by them. For example, in late July 2005, China Unicom notified several major service providers, including our operating company, Beijing Lei Ting Wan Jun Network Technology Limited, or Beijing Lei Ting, that China Unicom was temporarily suspending the settlement of service fees because of complaints it received from mobile phone users relating to services rendered during the period from January 2005 to June 2005. According to the notice, China Unicom received complaints from users regarding Beijing Lei Ting’s provision of SMS services in possible breach of certain conditions of the agreement with the mobile operator with respect to service failure and inaccurate billing. In September 2005, as a result of China Unicom’s investigation, Beijing Lei Ting received two sanction notices from China Unicom together with a fine of US$209,000. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to operator-imposed sanctions again in future, as a result of which our reputation, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and, as a consequence, the market prices for our ordinary shares and ADSs may decline. See “— Risks Relating to Our Industry — Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our Internet portal.” Our dependence on the substance and timing of the billing systems of the mobile telecommunications operators may require us to estimate portions of our reported revenue for wireless Internet services from time to time. As a result, subsequent adjustments may have to be made to our wireless Internet services revenue in our financial statements. Because we do not bill our wireless Internet services users directly, we depend on the billing systems and records of the mobile telecommunications operators to record the volume of our wireless Internet services provided, charge our users through mobile telephone bills and collect payments from our users and pay us. In addition, we do not generally have the ability to independently verify or challenge the accuracy of the billing systems of the mobile telecommunications operators. When we report our financial results from time to time, we typically have not received statements of account from all of the mobile telecommunications operators in respect of the period covered by our reports. In the event that a monthly statement for any operator has not been received at the time such financial results are reported, we will report wireless Internet services revenue based on our estimate of the collectible wireless Internet services relating to such operator. As a result, we may overstate or understate our wireless Internet services revenue for that reporting period. Any difference between the amount that is eventually received and our estimate of the collectible wireless Internet services for such operator may result in subsequent adjustments to our wireless Internet services revenue reported in our financial statements. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business. Our operating history is limited and the revenue and income potential of our business and markets are unproven. We launched our Internet portal in China in July 2000 and began providing wireless Internet data services in the second half of 2001. Wu Ji Network, one of our PRC operating companies, was incorporated in July 2002 and entered into an agreement with China Mobile to provide wireless IVR services in October 2002. Gainfirst Asia Limited, which we acquired in 2006, is a relatively new company with limited operating track records. From time to time we may expand our business into new geographical regions or new lines of service -7- Table of Contents in which we have no prior operating experience. For example, although we had no prior experience operating outside China, in February 2005, we acquired a majority of the issued share capital of Indiagames, a wireless game developer and publisher of mobile entertainment content based in India. Our board of directors decided in December 2006 to refocus on our core business in China and sell our equity interest in Indiagames. In September 2005, we established a joint venture with Skype Communications, S.A., or Skype, a company that provides voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, services. The joint venture company will develop and distribute a simplified Chinese version of Skype’s peer-to-peer software in China. On February 1, 2007, we established a joint venture online and wireless Internet auction and marketplace company, TOM Eachnet PRC Holdings (BVI) Inc., in which we hold a 51% stake and eBay International AG, or eBay, holds a 49% stake. EBay has injected into the joint venture its subsidiary, eBay Eachnet Network Information Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., which operates an online auction and marketplace business in China. Prior to the establishment of such joint ventures, we had no operating experience in the business of distributing VoIP software or online auction and marketplace business. There can be no assurance that these joint ventures will generate significant revenue or be profitable at all. In addition, prior to September 26, 2003, we did not operate as a separate, stand-alone entity, and we relied on our parent company for support in certain aspects of our operations. We face numerous risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies at an early stage of development. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • maintain our current, and develop new contractual arrangements upon which our business depends; • increase the number of our website page views of our target Internet user base by expanding the type, scope and technical sophistication of the content and services we offer and successfully convert these Internet users to fee-paying wireless Internet services users; • respond effectively to competitive pressures; • increase awareness of our brand and continue to build user loyalty; • attract and retain qualified management and employees; • successfully integrate our new acquisitions into our business operations and realize synergies from the resulting business combinations; • successfully address the business challenges and risks posed by the new geographical regions or new lines of business we enter into; • raise additional funds to meet the needs of our business growth; and • accurately assess the political, economic and social conditions in our markets. We cannot predict whether we will meet internal or external expectations of our future performance. If we are not successful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our historical financial information may not be representative of our future results of operations. Our historical financial information for periods prior to September 26, 2003 may not reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow would have been if we had been a separate, stand-alone entity during those periods. In addition, our historical financial information may not be representative of what our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow will be in the future. This is because: • we have made certain adjustments, such as allocations of head office expenses and imputed interest, in preparing our historical financial information for periods prior to September 26, 2003 since we were not operated as a single, stand-alone entity for those periods; and -8- Table of Contents • we historically experienced rapid growth in our business in part due to the growth in China’s wireless Internet services industry, and such industry growth may not be indicative of future growth. We first attained profitability in 2003, and our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may differ from market expectations. We have attained profitability only since 2003. We recorded a net loss in each year prior to 2003, and we cannot assure you that our profitability will be sustained. Our operating results have varied significantly in the past, and may vary significantly in the future, due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our revenues are generally subject to consumer demand. For example, our revenue may increase when there is a surge in usage of wireless Internet services due to major promotional events sponsored by us or the mobile telecommunications operators. In addition, our revenue may also fluctuate due to our acquisition of additional businesses as well as changes in policies or guidelines implemented by the mobile telecommunications operators. See “— Our financial condition or results of operations may be materially affected by the changes in policies or guidelines of the mobile telecommunications operators.” As a result, we believe that year-to-year comparisons of our past operating results are not indicative of our future performance. In addition, our future operating results may not meet the expectations of financial analysts, investors and other market participants, and, as a consequence, the trading price of our ADSs or ordinary shares may decline. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, claims based on the content and services we provide through our Internet portal. Because of the manner in which we obtain, collect, produce and aggregate content for our Internet portal and wireless Internet services, and because our services and platforms may be used for the distribution of information and third-party content, claims may be filed against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of such information. In addition, we may be subject to claims relating to the online activities of our users. Furthermore, we offer web- based e-mail services, which may expose us to liability relating to unsolicited e-mail messages, lost or misdirected e-mail messages, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail services or interruptions or delays in e-mail services. We may incur significant costs, and may be required to divert management and other resources from our business and operations, investigating and defending these types of claims even if they do not result in liability. We have not, however, purchased liability insurance for these types of claims. PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in China’s telecommunications services industry, and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to our contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies due to uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. In December 2001, in order to comply with China’s commitments with respect to its entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, the State Council promulgated the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises, or the Telecom FIE Rules. The Telecom FIE Rules set forth detailed requirements with respect to capitalization, investor qualifications and application procedures in connection with the establishment of a foreign invested telecommunications enterprise. Pursuant to the Telecom FIE Rules, the ultimate ownership interest of a foreign investor in a foreign-funded telecommunications enterprise that provides Internet telecommunications services may not exceed 50%. We and our subsidiaries are considered as foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws. PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign ownership of companies that provide Internet telecommunications services and Internet content services in China. As a result, we operate our wireless Internet services and online advertising businesses in China through Beijing Lei Ting, Shenzhen Freenet Information Technology Company Limited, or Shenzhen Freenet, Wu Ji Network, LingXun, Startone and Beijing -9- Table of Contents Infomax, which are owned by certain PRC citizens. We do not have any equity interest in these PRC operating companies and instead enjoy the economic benefit in such companies through contractual arrangements. Our PRC operating companies conduct substantially all of our operations and generate substantially all of our revenue and hold the licenses and approvals that are essential to our business. For a description of our contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies, see “Item 4 — Information on the Company” and “Item 7 — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” In the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Jun He Law Offices, the ownership structures of our PRC operating companies and our subsidiaries incorporated in China, and contractual agreements among, certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies and their shareholders as described herein are in compliance with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations and are enforceable in accordance with their terms and conditions, and subject to the applicable laws at the time of the enforcement, including, without limitation, that the enforcement of pledge of shares or assets will be subject to the relevant registration of such pledge, and that the enforcement of loan agreements will be subject to the foreign debt registration requirement. However, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and implementation of current PRC laws and regulations, including without limitation, the Interim Provisions on the Takeover of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors issued in August 2006 and the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in the Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business issued by the Ministry of Information Industry, or MII, in July 2006. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC regulatory authorities will not determine that our contractual arrangements among our wholly owned subsidiaries, our PRC operating companies and their shareholders, and the business operations of our PRC operating companies as described herein violate PRC laws or regulations. If we or any of our PRC operating companies were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines; • confiscating our income of that of our PRC operating companies; • revoking our business license or those of our PRC operating companies; • shutting down our servers or those of our PRC operating companies, or blocking our websites or those of our PRC operating companies; • requiring us or our PRC operating companies to restructure our ownership structure or operations; and/or • requiring us or our PRC operating companies to discontinue our wireless Internet services and online advertising businesses. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses. PRC laws and regulations currently restrict foreign ownership of companies that provide Internet telecommunications services, which includes wireless Internet services and Internet content services. As a result, we conduct substantially all of our operations and generate substantially all of our revenue through our PRC operating companies, Beijing Lei Ting, Shenzhen Freenet, Wu Ji Network, LingXun, Startone and Beijing Infomax, each of which is wholly owned by certain PRC citizens, pursuant to a series of contractual arrangements with these entities and their respective shareholders. These arrangements, however, may not be as effective in providing control over our Internet content operations as direct ownership of these businesses as these arrangements will not preserve our -10- Table of Contents control in the occurrence of certain events which may be outside the control of the shareholders and us, including the imposition of statutory liens, judgments, court orders, death or incapacity. In particular, our PRC operating companies could fail to perform or make payments as required under those contractual agreements, and we will have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce those agreements. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in China over the past 20 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us. In addition, the PRC government may propose new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Furthermore, because these entities, their shareholders and the assets of these entities and their shareholders are located in China, it may not be possible to effect services of processes within the United States or elsewhere outside of China upon these entities or assets or enforce judgments of courts in jurisdictions outside of China against these entities or assets. See also “— Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China — You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management.” We face intense competition, which could reduce our market share, and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The markets for wireless Internet and Internet services and products, particularly Internet content services, Internet search and retrieval services and online advertising, are intensely competitive due to low barriers of entry and as a result, there are an increasing number of entrants to the PRC wireless Internet services. We face intense competition from a number of companies that provide wireless Internet services and online advertising in China. Our primary competitors in wireless Internet services (including data and voice services) and online advertising services include, but are not limited to, Sina Corporation, Sohu.com Inc., Netease.com Inc., Linktone Ltd., Kongzhong Corporation, Tencent Technology Limited, Rock Mobile, Baidu, Beijing Longtech Company Limited, Beijing QTT Information Services Company Limited, and Hurray Solutions. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants in the wireless Internet services and Internet industries. Some of our major competitors have certain advantages over us, including better brand recognition among users, wider user base, a longer operating track record, access to more capital resources and strategic alliances with foreign partners that have extensive resources. With these advantages, our competitors may be better able to develop, market and sell their products and services, attract a larger number of new users as well as online advertisers and cooperation arrangements, and attract potential merger and acquisition targets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. In addition to competition from other wireless Internet services providers, mobile telecommunications operators have begun offering services that compete with ours, some of which are being provided on a complimentary basis. We cannot assure you that mobile telecommunications operators will not offer additional competing services in the future. Increased competition from mobile communications operators could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with our acquisitions, each of which may result in a material adverse effect on our operating or financial performance. We have historically made and continue to pursue strategic acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. We regularly assess the opportunity to expand our business through mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances and we intend to make further acquisitions in the future to enhance our product portfolio, proprietary content, distribution channels and technology. Our acquisitions may not contribute to our profitability, and we may be required to incur or assume debt or contingent liabilities as part of any acquisition. Our acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. We may have difficulty assimilating the personnel, technology and operations of the acquired companies, and these difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Moreover, the acquired businesses may not perform as -11- Table of Contents well as we expect, and we may not capitalize on the synergies we expected from our acquisitions. If any of these happens, our revenue and profitability may not grow as we expect and this could also result in impairment related to goodwill or other intangible assets associated with the business acquired. We are controlled by TOM Group Limited, who may not always act in your best interest and whose business may be in competition with ours. TOM Group Limited (formerly TOM.COM LIMITED), or TOM Group, our parent company, owns an aggregate of approximately 65.7% equity interest in us as of March 31, 2007. Accordingly, TOM Group is able to: • indirectly influence the selection of our senior management; • determine the timing and amount of our dividend payments; and • otherwise control or influence actions that require the approval of our shareholders. The interests of TOM Group as our controlling shareholder could conflict with our interests or with the interests of our minority shareholders. As a result, TOM Group may take actions that may not be in the best interests of us or our other shareholders. In addition, TOM Group’s business may be in competition with ours. We have entered into a deed of non-competition with TOM Group. The terms of the deed of non-competition, however, do not prohibit TOM Group from engaging in limited online activities that may compete with our business. The deed of non-competition will also not preclude TOM Group from engaging in limited online services or activities that are ancillary to its outdoor media, publishing, sports as well as television and entertainment business, subject to certain revenue limits, or prevent TOM Group from undertaking any ISP business, television or broadcasting business, audio-visual business or investments in listed companies that engage in online activities (provided its interest does not exceed 5%) or any investment funds (provided that any such investment fund does not take a majority interest in any online business and that such online business shall not be operated by TOM Group). In addition, the deed of non-competition will terminate on the later of (i) when TOM Group ceases to hold 30% or more of our issued capital (ii) when our ordinary shares or ADSs are no longer listed on either Nasdaq or the Growth Exchange Market, or GEM, of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, or the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, or (iii) February 27, 2006. We cannot assure you that such conflict of interests and any overlap of business activities and operations between TOM Group and us will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. Our directors and those of our parent, TOM Group, jointly announced on March 9, 2007 that TOM Group requested our board of directors to put forward a proposal for our privatization by way of a scheme of arrangement. See “— Related Party Transactions — Ongoing Related Party Transactions between Us or Our Subsidiaries and Our Parent Company or its Subsidiaries — Privatization.” If the privatization is consummated, we will be approximately 90.002% owned by TOM Group. We expect that such privatization, if consummated, would result in the withdrawal of listing of our ADSs from Nasdaq and that we would no longer be a reporting company under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We would face severe disruptions to our business operations, and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected, if we lose the right to use or fail to reach a trademark license agreement with respect to the use of the tom.com trademarks on acceptable terms in the event that such trademarks are assigned back to Tom.com Enterprises Limited. In order to comply with a recent MII notice regarding trademark ownership by Internet content provider license holders, the rights, titles and interests in and to the tom.com trademark have been assigned from Tom.com Enterprises Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of our parent company, TOM Group, to Beijing Lei Ting, our wholly-owned subsidiary and one of our operating companies, by signing a deed of trademark and domain name assignment dated September 26, 2006. Under this deed, in the event that Beijing Lei Ting ceases to be a wholly owned subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of us or if we cease to be a subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of TOM Group, Tom.com -12- Table of Contents Enterprises Limited shall have the right to require, by notice in writing to Beijing Lei Ting, the assignment back to Tom.com Enterprises Limited of all of Beijing Lei Ting’s rights, titles and interests in and to the tom.com trademark. Beijing Lei Ting undertakes that it will not sell, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of all or any of its rights, titles and interests in and to all or any of the tom.com trademarks to any third party without the prior written consent of Tom.com Enterprises Limited. In the event that Beijing Lei Ting ceases to be a wholly owned subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of us or we cease to be a subsidiary of TOM Group, we will have to renegotiate with TOM Group or any such trademark holder on the license fee and terms of use for the tom.com trademark. We cannot assure you that the license fee and terms of use, if revised, will be commercially advantageous to us. In the event that we and TOM Group cannot agree on the trademark license fee or the terms of use, we will lose the benefit of the brand recognition of the tom.com trademarks we have developed and there can be no assurance that we will succeed in developing a new brand . As a result, we may face severe disruptions to our business operations, and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, we believe that maintaining and further developing the quality associated with and awareness of the tom.com trademarks is critical to our ability to expand our user base and increase our revenue. Our success in promoting and enhancing the brand recognition of the tom.com trademarks, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will depend on our success in offering high quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brand successfully, or if users, advertisers or potential partners do not perceive our content and services to be of a high quality, we may not be able to continue to attract users, advertisers and business partners, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We may need additional capital and may not be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms. Capital requirements are difficult to plan in our rapidly changing industry. We currently expect that we will need capital to fund the expansion of our Internet portal and computer infrastructure, including acquisitions of complementary assets, technologies or businesses, the expansion into new geographical markets, the expansion of our content and products as well as the expansion of our sales and marketing activities. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perceptions of, and demand for, securities of Internet companies; • conditions of the U.S., Hong Kong and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in Internet companies; • the regulatory and political environment in the United States that affects investment by U.S. investors in Chinese Internet companies; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we may not be able to carry out parts of our growth strategy to acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing business or necessary to maintain our growth and competitiveness. -13- Table of Contents As a stand-alone entity, we no longer receive from our parent company the same kind or degree of financial support as we did prior to becoming a stand-alone entity, and as of December 31, 2006, the amount due from us to our parent company was nil. Prior to our initial public equity offering, we primarily financed our operations through capital contributions and advances from our parent company. Amount due from us to our parent company was approximately US$19,456,000, US$19,281,000 and nil as of December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. After the completion of our initial public equity offering, our parent company has not provided us with any additional capital contributions or advances, and it has advised us that it does not intend to do so in the future. Accordingly, we may need to seek other sources of financing to meet our funding needs. We were not subject to any financial covenants under the terms of the borrowings from our parent company, but they were payable on demand. Our parent company had, however, agreed not to demand any repayment of these loans prior to December 31, 2006 unless (i) our ordinary shares had been listed on GEM for one year, (ii) in the most recent fiscal year we had positive cash flow from operations and net profit and (iii) each of our independent non-executive directors agreed that such repayment would not adversely affect our operations or the implementation of our business objectives. These loan arrangements were generally more favorable to us than what we believed that we could have received in the market as a stand-alone entity. We repaid all outstanding loan balances to our parent company in 2006. Our future financing terms may not be as favorable as the financial support we received from our parent company prior to our becoming a stand-alone entity. The proposal by our parent, TOM Group, to privatize us has distracted our management and other resources from developing our business and may disrupt our relationships with our customers, suppliers, other strategic partners or employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our directors and those of our parent, TOM Group, jointly announced on March 9, 2007 that TOM Group requested our board of directors to put forward a proposal for our privatization by way of a scheme of arrangement, or Scheme, under Section 86 of the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands. If the Scheme is approved by our shareholders other than TOM Group, Cranwood Company Limited, Handel International Limited, Schumann International Limited and Devine Gem Management Limited, who are deemed related parties under the rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, and becomes effective, we understand that TOM Group will cause us to apply to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange to withdraw the listing of our ordinary shares on GEM, and to Nasdaq to withdraw the listing of our ADSs, and will also cause us to file a Form 15F with the SEC to request that our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act be terminated or suspended because the effectiveness of the Scheme will cause the number of holders of our ordinary shares in the United States to fall below 300 or otherwise cause us to become eligible for de-registration. The on-going privatization process has caused us to incur significant expenses and distracted our management and other resources from developing our business, as a result of which it may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, especially if further delays are encountered. In addition, in response to this announcement, our customers, suppliers or other strategic partners may terminate or cancel their existing relationships with us, or delay or defer decisions to enter into or to renew those arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. Furthermore, on June 8, 2007, our shareholders voted to adjourn to a later date the meetings originally scheduled to be held on June 8, 2007 to vote on the Scheme so that the shareholders and ADS holders would have additional time to consider the Scheme. There is no assurance that the Scheme will not encounter further delays or that it will eventually be approved by our shareholders. See “Item 7 Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Ongoing Related Party Transactions between Us or Our Subsidiaries and Our Parent Company or its Subsidiaries — Privatization.” -14- Table of Contents Litigation may arise in connection with the proposed privatization, which could negatively impact our business and our results of operations. Litigation may be brought against, among others, us and our directors and officers alleging, among other claims, breaches of fiduciary duties relating to the proposed privatization. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation (if it arises) or the impact on our business and results of operations. Any such litigation, with or without merit, could substantially divert the attention of management and resources in general. In addition, the cost of defending any such litigation, even if resolved favorably, could be substantial. We depend on certain key executives and employees and our business may be disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees. Our future success is dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and employees. We rely on their expertise in our business operations and on their personal relationships with the regulatory authorities, our partners and our PRC operating companies. In particular, we rely heavily on Mr. Wang Lei Lei, our chief executive officer and executive director, for his management skills, technological expertise, experience in the Internet industry and working relationship with the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, our clients, suppliers and mobile telecommunications operators in China. If one or more of our key executives, in particular, Mr. Wang Lei Lei, becomes unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if they join a competitor or form a competing company in contravention of their employment agreements, we may not be able to replace them easily, our business may be significantly disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The dividends and other distributions on equity we may receive from our subsidiaries or other payments we may receive from our PRC operating companies are subject to restrictions under PRC law or agreements that these entities may enter into with third parties. We are a holding company. We own a number of subsidiaries that have entered into contractual arrangements with our PRC operating companies, Beijing Lei Ting, Shenzhen Freenet, Wu Ji Network, LingXun, Startone and Beijing Infomax, through which we conduct our wireless Internet and other business activities and receive substantially all of our revenues in the form of service fees. We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries and service fees from our PRC operating companies for our cash requirements in excess of any cash raised from investors and retained by us. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, PRC law requires that payment of dividends by our subsidiaries that are incorporated in China can only be made out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, those subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of up to 10% of their after-tax net income each year to fund certain reserve funds until the aggregate balance of the common reserve has accounted for over 50% of such company’s registered capital, and these reserves are not distributable as dividends. Any limitation on the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries could materially adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. In certain instances we have contracted with third parties to provide content for our wireless Internet services or our portal or have entered into exclusive relationships with third parties for distribution of our wireless Internet services, and our business may be adversely affected if these relationships are not renewed. From time to time we make arrangements with third parties to provide content for our wireless Internet services or our portal or have exclusive relationships for the distribution of certain of our wireless Internet services. For instance, many of the SMS, MMS, WAP, IVR and color ring back tone, or CRBT, products that we offer through our wireless Internet service and certain of the content we exhibit on our portal are provided to us by third parties. Additionally, through LingXun, Treasure Base provides wireless services, including sports content, in exclusive cooperation with CCTV 5. We are also an exclusive partner of CCTV 2 in wireless Internet services through Beijing Infomax. Our content licensing arrangements with third parties generally have terms ranging from one to two years, and our distribution agreements with third parties generally have terms from one to three years. Any deterioration of our relationship with these third parties or failure to renew these arrangements or agreements may reduce the attractiveness of our wireless Internet services or our portal. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. -15- Table of Contents Intellectual property is important to our business, and any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business. We regard the copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property we use as important to our business, and any unauthorized use of such intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on the protection of the intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our employees, clients, business partners and others to protect such intellectual property rights. Despite precautions taken by us, our parent company and its subsidiaries, third parties may still be able to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries in China is uncertain and still evolving, and these laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of some other jurisdictions, such as the United States and Hong Kong. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The PRC government has provided various incentives to our subsidiaries and variable interest entities that are incorporated in the PRC, such as Shenzhen Freenet, Beijing Lei Ting, Wu Ji Network, Beijing GreaTom United Technology Company Limited, or GreaTom, Beijing Super Channel Network Limited, or Beijing Super Channel, LingXun, Startone and Beijing Infomax due to the location of their registered offices inside special economic zones or special development zones, or due to their status as high technology enterprises. These subsidiaries and variable interest entities must continue to meet a number of criteria in order to continue to qualify for the preferential tax treatments or the financial incentives currently available to them. Moreover, the government could determine at any time to eliminate or reduce the scale of such preferential tax policies. For example, a newly enacted PRC tax law that will take effect on January 1, 2008, could increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to these subsidiaries and variable interest entities. See “Item 5 — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Income Taxation — China.” Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate of these subsidiaries and variable interest entities or discontinuation or reduction of any of the preferential tax treatments or financial incentives currently enjoyed by these subsidiaries and variable interest entities could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business. We source some of our content from the public domain, including from third party websites for which copyrights may not be clearly identified, and we cannot be certain that our products and services do not or will not infringe upon valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We have, in the past, been subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to intellectual property, and we may in the future be subject to similar or other legal proceedings and claims relating to intellectual property in our ordinary course of business. We do not believe that our business operations have been materially adversely affected by the legal proceedings or claims in which we were previously involved. However, if we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others in the future, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternative intellectual property. We may also incur substantial expenses, or may be required to divert management or other resources from our business operations, in defending against third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement claims against us may result in substantial monetary liability or severe disruptions to our business operations. -16- Table of Contents Any future outbreak of SARS or any other epidemic in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as SARS. On July 5, 2003, the World Health Organization declared that SARS had been contained. However, following this declaration, a few new cases of SARS were reported in Asia. In addition, during 2005 and 2006 China reported cases of humans becoming infected with a strain of avian influenza or bird flu known as H5N1, which is often fatal to humans. While the outbreak of SARS may have increased the usage of the Internet, as well as the usage of our products and services, an outbreak of SARS or other contagious diseases such as meningitis, avian influenza or nipah virus in the future may disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, a new outbreak of SARS or any other contagious diseases may reduce the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may lead to a reduction in our advertising revenue if our clients cancel existing contracts or defer future advertising expenditures. In addition, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, or the offices of our advertisers, content providers or partners, which will severely disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventative measures or contingency plans to deal with the consequences of any future outbreak of SARS, avian influenza or other disease. We have limited operating experience outside China, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if our investments outside the PRC are not successful. We have made investments outside the PRC although we have limited experience operating outside the PRC. We have limited knowledge of the local cultures, customs and habits in markets outside the PRC, and we will rely heavily on our foreign business partners to market and operate successfully. We may face intense competition in non-PRC markets and our operating costs could be higher than those of locally-owned companies. We may face other risks in connection with any non-PRC operations, including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • political and economic instability or social unrest; • trade, legal and other restrictions; • difficulties in profit repatriation; • longer payment cycles by clients; • a shortage of expertise and talent; • long-distance management difficulties; and • cultural difference and language barriers. In February 2005, we acquired 76.29% of the issued share capital of Indiagames, a wireless game developer and publisher of mobile entertainment content based in India, an investment that was subsequently diluted to 62.42%. Following a management review of Indiagames and a desire to focus more exclusively on our core business activities in the PRC, our board of directors decided on December 29, 2006 to sell substantially all our equity interest in Indiagames and initiated actions to locate a buyer. Although a binding term sheet was signed with a potential buyer of Indiagames, a definitive agreement is still under negotiation and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully sell such equity interest at a price that will enable us to make a profit on our investment, or at any price. Furthermore, we may make additional investments outside the PRC in the future, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if such investments are not successful. -17- Table of Contents Our efforts to develop new lines of business that are untested in the PRC or to broaden our business into new media segments may not succeed or generate enough revenues to offset the costs that we incur in development or become profitable. We have recently entered into a number of new lines of business. Since we have no prior operating experience in these businesses, we may lack the resources and expertise to address the challenges posed by these new businesses. In addition, these businesses are untested in the PRC and involve risks and uncertainties that are unfamiliar to us. For example, in late 2004, we entered into contractual arrangements with Skype to jointly provide instant messaging services in the PRC with the ability to conduct voice conversations over the Internet, or VoIP. In September 2005, we established a joint venture with Skype to develop and distribute a Chinese version of Skype’s peer-to-peer communication software, which includes VoIP functionality. The use of personal computers to conduct voice conversations over the Internet is new to the PRC market, and may not be widely accepted by consumers. In addition, it may not generate enough revenues to offset the costs we will incur as we develop the business or experience continued growth. The delivery of high-quality VoIP also depends upon users subscribing to broadband Internet access. If broadband Internet usage fails to become widespread in the PRC, our VoIP business is unlikely to generate significant revenues or be profitable. Furthermore, industry analysts have reported that subsidiaries of China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, a PRC provider of fixed-line telephone services, from time to time have blocked their subscribers from using Skype to make voice calls from one computer to another computer or to ordinary telephones. While our joint venture with Skype does not offer the capability of making voice calls from computers to ordinary telephones, it does offer computer-to-computer telephony. We cannot assure you that China Telecom or MII will not decide in the future to bar computer-to-computer telephony, which might prevent us from continuing to operate our Skype joint venture. In September 2005 we entered into an agreement with Union Mobile Pay Ltd., or UMPay, the sole authorized mobile payment gateway on China Mobile’s platform, to jointly develop and market bank card, debit card and credit card-based mobile payment products and services in China. The use of such payment methods is relatively new to the PRC and there can be no assurance that our products and services will be accepted by Chinese consumers or generate enough revenues to offset the costs we incur as we develop the business. In addition, since 2006, our management has adopted the strategy to broaden our business beyond our wireless Internet services into other new media segments. For example, on February 1, 2007, we established a joint venture online and wireless Internet auction and marketplace company, TOM Eachnet PRC Holdings (BVI) Inc., in which we hold a 51% stake and eBay holds a 49% stake. EBay has injected into the joint venture its subsidiary, eBay Eachnet Network Information Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., which operates an online auction and marketplace business in China. We expect to undertake significant business restructuring and additional capital investments to continue to broaden our business, which may not succeed or generate enough revenue to offset the costs that we have incurred and will incur in developing and implementing such strategies to broaden our business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and the market price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. We are required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to include a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, our independent auditor must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Although our management has concluded that our internal control over our financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006, the end of the period covered by this annual report, we cannot assure you that our management will reach a similar conclusion at the end of future reporting periods. In addition, even if our management concludes at the end of future reporting periods that our internal control is effective, our independent auditor may disagree. If our independent auditor is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent auditor interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may issue an -18- Table of Contents adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which ultimately could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. We also may need to incur significant costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements. Moreover, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Risks Relating to Our Industry The Internet industry is highly regulated by the PRC government. If we fail to obtain or maintain all pertinent permits and approvals or if the government changes existing regulations or imposes new ones, our business operations may be materially adversely affected. The Internet industry is highly regulated by the PRC government. Regulations issued or implemented by the State Council, the MII, and other relevant regulatory authorities regulate many aspects of the Internet industry, including the provision of value-added telecommunications services, foreign investment in the telecommunications industry, and the scope of permissible online business activities. In September 2000, the PRC’s State Council promulgated the Telecommunications Regulations, which categorized all telecommunications businesses as either infrastructure telecommunications businesses or value- added telecommunications businesses, with various Internet-related services and activities classified as value-added telecommunications businesses. According to the Telecommunications Regulations, a commercial operator of any of the telecommunications services must obtain the requisite operating licenses. Since the publication of the Telecommunications Regulations, various administrative measures have been introduced or amended to govern various aspects of the Internet services, such as Internet information services, online news services, Internet publishing, Internet medical, health and drug information services, online advertising services, Internet access services and international connections for computer information networks. We are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different PRC regulatory authorities in order to provide those services. For example, an Internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain a Value-Added Telecommunications Business Operations Permit, or ICP license, in order to engage in any commercial ICP operations within China. In addition, an ICP that provides content involving news, publishing, education, health care, medicine and medical devices is required to obtain additional approvals for each area from the relevant authorities. The PRC’s telecommunications laws currently do not specifically regulate personal computer-based VoIP services, and as a result there are significant uncertainties regarding licensing and approval requirements for our VoIP joint venture with Skype. If we fail to obtain or maintain any of the above-mentioned required permits or approvals or comply with MII’s operating guideline for wireless value-added service providers, we may be subject to various penalties, such as fines, suspension or a shutdown of operations, which could severely disrupt our business operations. For example, on June 5, 2007, MII notified 265 service providers, including Beijing Lei Ting and Wu Ji Network, that certain of their business practice had failed MII’s annual performance review. Our operating companies and the other service providers were required to rectify the problems before June 24, 2007 and submit a report to MII detailing the measures they have taken to correct those problems. Beijing Lei Ting and Wu Ji Network were included in such notice because a small number of services they provided to mobile phone users did not match the service codes they were required to use. The problem arose because both companies had reshuffled certain product offerings after they submitted their annual business reports to MII in December 2006. After receiving the MII notice, both companies rectified the problem and submitted reports to MII prior to June 24, 2007. However, we cannot assure you that we will not fail in future to comply with MII guidelines or that the resultant penalties will not be severe. -19- Table of Contents In July 2006, the MII issued the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in the Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business. In the circular, the MII reiterated the existing regulations regarding foreign investment in telecommunications business, which require foreign investors to set up foreign-invested enterprises and obtain a business operating license for Internet content provision, or ICP license, in order to conduct any value-added telecommunications business in China. Under this circular, a domestic company that holds an ICP license is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form, and from providing resources, sites or facilities to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business shall be owned by the local ICP license holder or its shareholders. This circular further requires each ICP license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to the lack of further interpretation from the regulator, it remains unclear what impact the above circular will have on us or the other Chinese Internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate and contractual structures as ours. In addition, MII and other regulatory agencies may change the existing regulations, announce new applications or interpretations of the existing regulations or issue new regulations. Such changed, re-interpreted or new regulations may impose additional costs on our business or force us to change the way in which we conduct our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all such changed, re-interpreted or new regulations, which may result in us being subject to penalties. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. For example, industry analysts have reported in recent years that MII had plans to implement a policy of requiring the users of mobile phone prepaid service cards, who do not have billing accounts with the mobile telecommunications operators, to register their names with such operators or face possible termination of service. The reported purpose of such policy would be to reduce the sending of unwanted or “spam” wireless Internet service messages. We have not been notified by MII of any such policy or seen any official announcement of such policy, but we cannot assure you that such policy will not be implemented in the future and, if implemented, will not adversely affect our customer base and revenues. In addition, MII has recently imposed restrictions on our cooperation arrangements with mobile phone producers, and we cannot guarantee that MII, China Mobile or the other telecommunications operators will not impose further restrictions or completely halt our cooperation with the mobile phone producers. On April 11, 2007, MII issued a notice barring the production of mobile handsets with wireless Internet services icons embedded in the handset menus in such a way that the icons and codes cannot be changed or deleted by consumers. Such notice took effect on June 1, 2007. Although mobile phone producers are still permitted to pre-load our icons into the handset menus as long as consumers are able to delete the icons if they wish, we cannot assure you that MII will not expand its regulation to bar pre-loading icons in the future. Furthermore, in the past, China Mobile entered into its own strategic alliances with selected mobile phone producers pursuant to which it embedded menus in their handsets for all the best-selling products on China Mobile’s MonternetTM wireless portal, including certain of our products. However, beginning in May 2007, China Mobile has started to promote only its own wireless value-added service products in such menus and not those of us or other third-party value-added service providers. We cannot assure you that China Mobile or other telecommunications operators will not take other steps, such as imposing penalties on us, to limit or halt our cooperative arrangements with the mobile phone producers. -20- Table of Contents Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our Internet portal. In recent years, the PRC government has adopted certain regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under those regulations, ICPs and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that opposes the fundamental principles in PRC’s Constitution; compromises state security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power or damages national unity; harms the dignity or interests of the state; incites ethnic hatred or racial discrimination or damages inter-ethnic unity; sabotages PRC’s religious policy or propagates heretical teachings or feudal superstitions; disseminates rumors, disturbs social order or disrupts social stability; propagates obscenity, pornography, gambling, violence, murder or fear or incites the commission of crimes; insults or slanders a third party or infringes upon the lawful rights and interests of a third party; or includes other content prohibited by laws or administrative regulations. Failure to comply with those requirements may result in the revocation of ICP licenses and the closing down of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with those requirements has resulted in the closing down of certain concerned websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to such website. In addition, the MII has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content included on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The PRC’s Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider, or ISP, to block any Internet website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The PRC’s State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of State secrets of the PRC government, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the distribution of online information. Because these regulations are relatively new and subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it may not be possible for us to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for us as a website operator. In addition, we may not be able to control or restrict the content of other ICPs that are linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on our websites by our users, despite our attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of our content to be objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the distribution of such information or otherwise curtail the nature of such content on our websites, which may reduce our user traffic and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to significant penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to, our websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our operations. The laws and regulations governing the Internet industry in China are developing and subject to future changes, and substantial uncertainties exist as to the interpretation and implementation of those laws and regulations. In recent years, the PRC government has begun to enact laws and regulations applicable to Internet-related services and activities, including wireless value-added services, many of which are relatively new and untested and subject to future changes. In addition, various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, such as the State Council, the MII, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, the State News and Publication Administration, or SNPA, the Ministry of Public Security, and the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, are empowered to issue and implement regulations to regulate certain aspects of Internet-related services and activities. Furthermore, some local governments have also promulgated local rules applicable to Internet companies operating within their respective jurisdictions. Because the Internet industry itself is at an early stage of development in China, there will likely be new laws and regulations adopted in the future to address issues that arise from time to time. As a result of the foregoing, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and future PRC Internet laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations due to these substantial uncertainties. -21- Table of Contents The Internet infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, Hong Kong or certain other countries, may limit our growth. The Internet infrastructure in China is not as well developed as in the United States, Hong Kong or certain other countries. We depend significantly on the PRC government and fixed line telecommunications operators in China to establish and maintain a reliable Internet infrastructure to reach a growing base of Internet users in China. We cannot assure you that the Internet infrastructure in China will support the demands associated with the continued growth of the Internet industry, and in particular the development and growth of services that may require higher bandwidth, such as MMS, WAP, Java™ and VoIP. If the necessary infrastructure standards or protocols, or complementary products, services or facilities are not developed in China on a timely basis or at all by these enterprises, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The relatively high cost of Internet access in China may limit the growth of the Internet industry in China and impede our growth. While the cost of Internet access in China has decreased dramatically in recent years due to the decrease in the cost of personal computers and laptops and the introduction and expansion of broadband access in China, it remains relatively high in comparison to the average income in China, which may make it less attractive for users to access, and transact business, over the Internet. Any fee or tariff increase could further decrease our user traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend largely on the infrastructure of the telecommunications operators in China, and any interruption of their network infrastructure may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, substantially all access to the Internet in China is maintained through the telecommunications operators, under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MII. In addition, local networks connect to the Internet through a government-owned international gateway. This international gateway is the only channel through which a domestic Chinese user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, certain other Internet data centers in China to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. In the event of a large-scale infrastructure disruption or failure, we may not have access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis or at all. We may not be able to lease additional bandwidth from the telecommunications operators in China on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we may not have means of getting access to alternative networks and services on a timely basis or at all in the event of any disruption or failure of the network. Our operations could be disrupted by unexpected network interruptions caused by system failures, natural disasters and unauthorized tampering with our system. The uninterrupted availability of our websites and the performance and reliability of our network infrastructure are important to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain users, advertisers and merchants. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes an interruption in the availability of our websites or increases the response time of our services could reduce our attractiveness to users, advertisers and merchants. Factors that could disrupt our operations include: • failure of our system; • failure of the systems of our Internet data center backbone; • system failures and outages caused by power shortages, substandard equipment or natural disasters such as fire, flood, typhoon or earthquakes; and • computer viruses, Internet and e-mail worms and other malicious programs or unauthorized tampering with our system. -22- Table of Contents We have limited backup systems and have previously experienced system failures, which have disrupted our operations. Moreover, we have not purchased business interruption insurance. Interruptions of our services may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concerns about the security and confidentiality of information on the Internet may increase our costs, reduce the use of our websites and impede our growth. A significant barrier to confidential communications over the Internet has been the need for security. There have been several well-publicized compromises of Internet security as a result of global virus outbreaks. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. If unauthorized persons are able to penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. As a result, we may be required to expend substantial costs and divert our other resources to protect against or to alleviate these problems. Security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to respond successfully to technological or industry developments, our business may be materially adversely affected. The telecommunications market is characterized by rapid advancements in technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. New standards, services or technologies may render our existing services or technologies less competitive or obsolete. Mobile operators in China are currently upgrading their telecommunications networks in preparation for the introduction of the third generation standard of wireless telecommunications transmission, or 3G. Responding and adapting to 3G and other technological developments and standard changes in our industry, integrating new technologies or industry standards or upgrading our networks may require substantial time, effort and capital investment. In the event that we are unable to respond successfully to technological industry developments, this may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and competitiveness. Risks Relating to the People’s Republic of China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • amount of government involvement; • level of development; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. -23- Table of Contents The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years, the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. An economic slowdown in China may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. We conduct most of our business and generate most of our revenues in China. As a result, economic conditions in China have a significant effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Since 1978, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, growth. We cannot assure you, however, that such growth will be sustained in the future. Moreover, the performance of the economies of the United States, the European Union and certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China. In addition, if an outbreak of SARS recurs, it may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity and may adversely affect economic growth in China, Asia and elsewhere in the world. We cannot assure you that our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will not be adversely affected by an economic downturn in China. Government control of currency conversion may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of these revenues must be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations. These foreign currency-denominated obligations include: • payment of interest and principal on foreign currency-denominated debt; • payment for equipment and materials purchased offshore; and • payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Certain foreign exchange transactions under the capital accounts of certain of our subsidiaries and our PRC operating companies, including foreign currency-denominated borrowings from PRC or foreign banks and principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, or to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which took -24- Table of Contents effect on November 1, 2005. Notice 75 supersedes prior SAFE regulations promulgated in January and April of 2005. On May 29, 2007, SAFE further issued practice guidance for Notice 75. Notice 75 requires PRC residents to register with the relevant local SAFE branch in connection with their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of overseas equity financing involving onshore assets or equity interests held by them. The term PRC residents as used in Notice 75 includes PRC citizens as well as other persons who habitually reside in the PRC for economic benefit. Such PRC residents are required to complete amended registrations with the relevant SAFE branch upon (i) injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise into the offshore entity, (ii) subsequent overseas equity financing by such offshore entity, or (iii) any material change in the shareholding or capital of the offshore entity, such as changes in share capital, share transfers and long-term equity or debt investments, and providing security. PRC residents who have already incorporated or gained control of offshore entities that made onshore investments in the PRC before Notice 75 was promulgated must register with the relevant local SAFE branch on or before March 31, 2006. In addition, such PRC residents are required to repatriate into China all of their dividend profits or capital gains from their shareholdings in the offshore entity within 180 days of their receipt of such profits or gains. The registration and amendment procedures set forth by Notice 75 are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investment or shareholders loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquidating distributions, equity sale proceeds or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. A number of terms and provision in Notice 75 remain unclear. Because of uncertainty over how Notice 75 will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as remitting dividends and foreign-currency denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Notice 75 requirements by our PRC resident shareholders. Despite our efforts to fully comply with the SAFE regulations, we cannot assure you that we will obtain, or receive waivers from, any necessary approvals or not be found in violation of the SAFE regulations or any other related foreign exchange regulations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to cause all our present or prospective PRC resident shareholders to comply with all SAFE regulations. A failure by our PRC resident shareholders to comply with Notice 75 or our inability to secure required approvals or registrations may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities or affect our ownership structure, any of which could affect our business and prospects. SAFE issued Measures for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange and its implementation rules effective on February 1, 2007. In March 2007, SAFE further promulgated the Work Guidance Concerning Foreign Exchange Management of Domestic Individual’s Participation in Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Notice 78. Notice 78 requires any domestic agency, which may be the onshore subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to report its individual stock plans with SAFE on a regular basis and comply with the relevant approval or registration procedures for the exercises under such individual stock plans. Since this requirement is relatively new and also due to the uncertainty relating to the practice adopted or to be adopted by SAFE or its various local branches in connection with this notice, there is no assurance that our current or future individual stock plans could be implemented without any challenge from the government. Fluctuation of the Renminbi could adversely affect the value of and dividends payable on our ADSs. The value of the Renminbi fluctuates and is subject to changes in PRC political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the PRC government’s new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Although daily fluctuations of the Renminbi against the basket of currencies are currently limited to 0.5% per day, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term. We cannot guarantee that the Renminbi will not be permitted to enter into a full float, which also may result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Because we receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, any fluctuation in the exchange rate against the U.S. dollar will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollar terms as well as the value of, and dividends, if any, payable on, our ordinary shares in U.S. dollar terms and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we may make in the future. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. -25- Table of Contents You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and substantially all of our assets and the assets of all our subsidiaries are located outside the United States. In addition, some of our directors and substantially all of our officers and their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Our PRC legal counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom or most other western countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court obtained in those jurisdictions in relation to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration provision may be difficult or impossible. We have been advised by Maples and Calder, our Cayman Islands legal advisers, that the courts of the Cayman Islands are unlikely (i) to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon certain of the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any State thereof and (ii) in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us predicated upon certain of the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any State thereof, if and to the extent that such provisions are penal in nature. However, in the case of laws that are not penal in nature, although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. A Cayman Islands court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. 