RISK FACTORS An investment in the American depositary shares representing our common shares involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with the other information contained in this document, in evaluating us and our business. Risks Relating to Competition Competition in the Korean banking industry, in particular in the small- and medium-sized enterprises banking, retail banking and credit card operations, is intense, and we may experience declining margins as a result. We compete principally with other national commercial banks in Korea but also face competition from a number of additional sources including regional banks, development banks, specialized banks and foreign banks operating in Korea, as well as various other types of financial institutions, including credit card companies, securities companies and asset management companies. Over the past few years, regulatory reforms and liberalization of the Korean financial markets have led to increased competition among financial institutions in Korea. As the reform of the financial sector continues, foreign financial institutions, many with greater resources than we have, have entered the Korean market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with other domestic and foreign financial institutions or that increased competition will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. The Korean commercial banking industry has undergone dramatic changes recently as a number of significant mergers and acquisitions in the industry have taken place. There may be additional consolidation in the Korean commercial banking industry, including Korea’s regional banks in particular. In November 2001, Kookmin Bank and Housing & Commercial Bank, two of the strongest banks in Korea, merged to form Kookmin Bank. The newly merged bank is significantly larger and has more financial resources than us. Also in 2001, Woori Bank restructured itself as a financial holding company and significantly realigned its businesses and products to compete with other larger banks in Korea. Furthermore, a number of significant mergers and acquisitions in the industry have taken place in Korea over the last few years. In 2002, there was a merger of Hana Bank and Seoulbank. In 2003, Lone Star acquired a controlling interest in Korea Exchange Bank. In 2004, Citibank acquired KorAm Bank through a tender offer and subsequently renamed it Citibank Korea. In 2005, Standard Chartered Bank acquired Korea First Bank. In addition, notwithstanding the failed sale of it in 2007, Korea Exchange Bank may be subject to a merger or sale in the near future. At present, these and other banks resulting from mergers or acquisitions may have more financial resources or more experience in providing certain banking or financial services than us. Increased competition and continuing consolidation in the Korean banking industry may lead to decreased margins. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with such banks. Over the past several years, virtually all Korean banks have adopted a strategy of reducing large corporate exposure and increasing small- and medium-sized enterprises, retail and credit card exposure. As a result, substantially all commercial banks and financial institutions in Korea have focused their business on, and engaged in aggressive marketing campaigns and made significant investments in, these sectors. The growth and profitability of our small- and medium-sized enterprises and retail banking activities and credit card operations may decline as a result of growing market saturation in these sectors, increased interest rate competition, pressure to lower the fee rates applicable to these sectors and higher marketing expenses. In particular, it will be more difficult for our bank subsidiaries to secure new small- and medium-sized enterprise customers, retail and credit card customers with the credit quality and on credit terms necessary to achieve our business objectives. An important focus of our business is to increase our fee income in order to diversify our revenue base, in anticipation of greater competition and declining lending margins. To date, except for credit card fees, securities brokerage fees and trust account management fees, we have not generated significant fee revenues. Our focus on generating fee revenue also involves the development of fee business from bancassurance and investment trust management. We recognize, however, that other banks and financial institutions in Korea have recently recognized the same trends and are beginning to focus on increasing their fee income, in particular from bancassurance and investment trust. 11 Table of Contents Successful acquisition of these fee generating businesses by our competitors may result in increased competition in the area of investment trust business. Recently, Woori Securities has acquired LG Investment & Securities, Hana Bank has acquired Daehan Investment & Securities, and Dongwon Financial Holding has acquired Korea Investment & Securities. In March 2007, we acquired the controlling equity interest in LG Card, the largest credit card company in Korea in terms of the number of cardholders which had been in a workout program since November 2003 . We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of LG Card into the rest of our operations, achieve the intended synergy effects or otherwise manage LG Card successfully. Intense competition in the fee-based business will require us to create a new market and innovative products and services in a highly competitive environment. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our future results of operations. We are highly dependent on short-term funding sources that are susceptible to price competition, which dependence may adversely affect our operations. Most of our funding requirements, principally those of Shinhan Bank and Chohung Bank, are met through short-term funding sources, primarily in the form of customer deposits, which are subject to significant price competition. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 89.91% of our total deposits had current maturities of one year or less or were payable on demand. In the past, a substantial portion of such customer deposits has been rolled over upon maturity or otherwise maintained with us, and such short-term deposits have been a stable source of funding over time. For example, of Shinhan Bank’s total time deposits outstanding as of December 31, 2006 with remaining maturities of four months or less, approximately 32.64% were rolled over or otherwise maintained with Shinhan Bank. No assurance can be given, however, that such stable source of funding will continue, including as a result of intense price competition. If a substantial number of depositors fail to roll over deposited funds upon maturity or withdraw such funds from us, our liquidity position could be materially adversely affected, and we may be required to seek more expensive sources of short-term and long-term funds to finance our operations. Risks Relating to Our Banking Business We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises including smaller enterprises, which may result in a deterioration of our asset quality to this segment and have an adverse impact on us. Our loans to small- and medium-sized enterprises meeting the definition of such enterprises under the Basic Act on Small- and Medium-sized Enterprises and its Presidential Decree increased from W38,713 billion as of December 31, 2004 to W39,943 billion as of December 31, 2005 and to W47,159 billion as of December 31, 2006. These balances represent 39.9%, 37.7% and 38.5%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006. For a definition of small- and medium-sized enterprises, see “