RISK FACTORS An investment in the American depositary shares representing our common shares involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with the other information contained in this document, in evaluating us and our business. Risks Relating to the Current Economic and Market Crisis The recent difficulties in global financial markets and its contagion effect on the overall economy could adversely affect our asset quality and results of operations. Since July 2007, significant adverse developments in the U.S. sub-prime mortgage sector have created significant disruption and volatility in financial markets globally. The ensuing contraction of liquidity and credit and deteriorations in asset values has had contagion effects on the overall economy. Starting in the second half of 2008, the world’s largest economies, including the United States, Europe and Japan, are widely considered to be in the midst of significant economic recessions, and export-driven emerging economies such as China and Korea have also suffered substantial weakness in their economies. For example, the Korean economy experienced a contraction in real gross domestic product by 3.4% in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007 and by 4.3% in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2008. The weakening economies in Korea and globally may create further shocks to the global financial markets, which in turn could cause a further downward spiral in global economic and financial conditions. 11 Table of Contents In Korea, where most of our assets are located and where we generate most of our income, there are growing signs that due to the recent significant difficulties in global economic and financial conditions, key macro- and microeconomic indicators such as exports, personal expenditure and consumption, unemployment rates, demand for business products and services, debt service burden of households and businesses, the general availability of credit and the asset value of real estate and securities may further deteriorate. Any or a combination of the foregoing factors may result in an increase in non-performing loans and worsen the asset quality of our loans. Shinhan Bank’s substandard or below credits, as classified according to the Financial Services Commission guidelines, increased to W1,531 billion as of December 31, 2008, from W981 billion as of December 31, 2007, while the ratio of Shinhan Bank’s substandard or below credits to total credits increased to 1.00% from 0.73% as of the same dates. Shinhan Bank’s delinquent loans, calculated under Korean GAAP, which represent loans whose principals are past due for one day or more, increased to W1,172 billion as of December 31, 2008, from W790 billion as of December 31, 2007, while its delinquency ratio increased to 0.79% from 0.62% as of the same dates. Such increases were largely due to the deteriorating asset quality of Shinhan Bank’s loans to small- to medium-sized enterprises, calculated under Korean GAAP, which amounted to W61,813 billion as of December 31, 2008, compared to W53,512 billion as of December 31, 2007. The delinquency ratio for such loans increased to 1.33% from 0.85% as of the same dates. The asset quality of our loans, particularly the loans to the small- to medium-sized enterprises, may further deteriorate, especially if the current economic and financial conditions in global and Korean markets continue to worsen, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The disruptions and volatility in the global and Korean financial markets and economies may also adversely affect our business and results of operation in other ways. Specifically, the availability of credit may become limited, causing some of our counterparties to default. Moreover, negative developments in the global credit markets may cause significant fluctuations in stock markets globally and foreign currency exchange rates, which in turn may affect our results of operation. If credit market conditions continue to deteriorate, our capital funding structure may need to be adjusted, our funding costs may increase, our credit rating may be further downgraded, or our loan and other credit losses may increase, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Systemic risk resulting from failures in the financial services industry could adversely affect us. Within the financial services industry the default of any institution could lead to defaults by other institutions. Concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions because the commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related as a result of their credit, trading, clearing or other relationships. This risk is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with whom we interact on a daily basis, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise new funding, and in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operation. Furthermore, we could be perceived to be facing the same issues as other financial institutions that hold assets with limited market liquidity or with significantly depressed values due to significantly negative views about the financial services sector in general as a result of recent economic and market developments, including the recent failures of major global financial institutions. Such perception of us, even if false, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Risks Relating to Our Overall Business Competition in the Korean financial services industry is intense, and may further intensify as a result of recent deregulation. Competition in the Korean financial services industry is, and is likely to remain, intense. Shinhan Bank competes principally with other major Korean commercial banks and major global banks operating in Korea, as well as government-run banks, specialized banks and regional banks. Our credit card and other subsidiaries also compete in a highly fragmented market. Some of our competitors, particularly the major global financial institutions, have greater experience and resources than we do. As the Korean economy further develops, more 12 Table of Contents competitors may enter the industry. In addition, potential consolidation among our rival institutions may make the competitive landscape more adverse to us. The Korean financial industry continues to be deregulated, which has lowered the barriers to entry. In February 2009, the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act became effective, which, by removing regulatory barriers between securities brokerage, asset management, derivative financial services and trust services, has enabled financial investment companies (which have replaced the pre-existing securities companies and asset management companies) to engage in a broader sphere of financial activities than the securities companies were previously allowed, as well as offer a wider range of depositary services. Accordingly, the new law enables the creation of large financial institutions that can offer both commercial and investment banking services modeled after the major global financial institutions based in the United States and Europe. If we are unable to compete effectively in this more competitive and deregulated business environment, our profit margin and market share may erode and our further growth opportunities may become limited, which could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. We and our subsidiaries need to maintain our capital ratios above minimum required levels, and the failure to maintain so could result in the suspension of some or all of our operations. We and our banking subsidiaries in Korea are required to maintain a minimum Tier I capital adequacy ratio of 4.0% and a BIS ratio of 8.0%, each on a consolidated Korean GAAP basis. These ratios measure the respective regulatory capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets on a consolidated basis and are determined based on guidelines of the Financial Services Commission. As of December 31, 2008, the Tier I capital adequacy ratio and the BIS ratio on a consolidated basis were 5.2% and 10.2%, respectively, for Shinhan Financial Group. As of December 31, 2008, the Tier I capital adequacy ratio and the BIS ratio on a consolidated basis were 9.3% and 13.4%, respectively, for Shinhan Bank. Our credit card subsidiary, Shinhan Card, is required to maintain a consolidated adjusted equity capital ratio of 8.0%, and as of December 31, 2008, such ratio was 20.3%. We or our subsidiaries may not be able to continue to satisfy the capital adequacy requirements for a number of reasons, including an increase in risky assets and provisioning expenses; substitution costs related to the disposal of problem loans; declines in the value of securities portfolio; adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the capital ratio requirements, the guidelines regarding the computation of capital ratios, or the framework set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision upon which the guidelines of the Financial Services Commission are based; or other adverse developments affecting our asset quality or equity capital as discussed in this section or due to other reasons. If the capital adequacy ratios of us or our subsidiaries fall below the required levels, the Financial Services Commission may impose penalties ranging from a warning to suspension or revocation of our or our subsidiaries’ business licenses. In order to maintain the capital adequacy ratios above the required levels, we or our subsidiaries may be required to raise additional capital through equity financing, but there is no assurance that we or our subsidiaries will be able to do so on commercially favorable terms or at all and, even if successful, any such capital raising may have a dilutive effect on our shareholders with respect to their interest in us or on us with respect to our interest in our subsidiaries. Liquidity, funding management and credit ratings are critical to our ongoing performance. Liquidity is essential to our business as a financial intermediary, and we may seek additional funding in the near future to satisfy liquidity needs, meet regulatory requirements, enhance our capital levels or fund the growth of our operations as opportunities arise. A substantial part of the liquidity and funding requirements for our banking subsidiaries is met using short-term customer deposits. While the volume of our customer deposits has generally been stable, there have been times when customer deposits declined substantially due to the popularity of other, higher-yielding investment opportunities, namely stocks and mutual funds, such as during times of bullish stock markets. During such times, our banking subsidiaries were required to obtain alternative funding at higher costs. In addition, following the deregulation of depositary and settlement services as a result of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, our banking subsidiaries may experience a decrease in customer deposits due to intensified competition. We and our subsidiaries also raise funds in the capital markets and borrow from other 13 Table of Contents financial institutions, the cost of which depends on the market rates and the general availability of credit and the terms of which may limit our ability to pay dividends, make acquisitions or subject us to other restrictive covenants. In addition, during times of sudden and significant devaluations of Korean Won against the U.S. dollar as was the case recently amid the global liquidity crisis, Korean commercial banks, including our banking subsidiaries, had difficulties from time to time in refinancing or obtaining optimal amounts of foreign currency-denominated funding on terms commercially acceptable to us. While our banking subsidiaries currently are not facing liquidity difficulties in any material respect, if we or our banking subsidiaries are unable to obtain the funding we need on terms commercially acceptable to us for an extended period of time for reasons of Won devaluation or otherwise, we may not be able to ensure our financial viability, meet regulatory requirements, implement our strategies or compete effectively. Credit ratings affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding. Domestic and international rating agencies regularly evaluate us and our subsidiaries and their ratings of our and our subsidiaries’ long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as conditions affecting the financial services industry generally and Korea. In light of the ongoing difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets, there can be no assurance that the rating agencies will maintain our current ratings or outlooks. For example, in February 2009, Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) downgraded credit ratings on eight banks in Korea, including Shinhan Bank, as a result of which Shinhan Bank’s foreign currency-denominated long-term unsecured senior debt credit rating was downgraded from A1 to A2, which is the corresponding credit rating currently assigned to the Korean government. Other rating agencies may decide to follow suit or place us or our subsidiaries, including Shinhan Bank, in a lower credit rating category. Additional downgrades in the credit ratings and outlooks of us and our subsidiaries will likely increase the cost of our funding, limit our access to capital markets and other borrowings, require us to post additional collateral in financial transactions, any of which could adversely affect our liquidity, net interest margins and profitability, and in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operation. Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, bond and equity prices, and other market factors have affected and will continue to affect our business. The most significant market risks we face are interest rate, foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks. Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realized between lending and borrowing costs. Changes in currency rates, particularly in the Korean Won-U.S. dollar exchange rates, affect the value of our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the reported earnings of our non-Korean subsidiaries and income from foreign exchange dealing. The performance of financial markets may affect bond and equity prices and, therefore, cause changes in the value of our investment and trading portfolios. While we have implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to which we are exposed, it is difficult to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may incur losses associated with our counterparty exposures. We face the risk that counterparties will be unable to honor contractual obligations to us or our subsidiaries. These parties may default on their obligations to us or our subsidiaries due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. This risk may arise, for example, from entering into swaps or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us or our subsidiaries or in executing currency or other trades that fail to settle at the required time due to non-delivery by the counterparty or systems failure by clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Counterparty risk has increased especially in light of the recent credit crisis and global economic downturn. For example, Good Morning Shinhan Securities, our securities brokerage subsidiary, recorded losses of W91 billion in 2008 as a result of the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers. Similar losses in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Banking Business We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and financial difficulties experienced by such enterprises may result in a deterioration of our asset quality. Our banking activities are conducted primarily through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Shinhan Bank. One of our core banking businesses has historically been and continues to be lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises (as defined in “