ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound sterling can adversely affect our reported financial results. The majority of our products and services are sold in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound sterling could significantly increase the cost of our products to the ultimate purchaser. Under such circumstances our sales may decrease or we may have to reduce the prices for our products and services, thereby reducing our income. We report our financial condition and results of operations in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar, Canadian dollar and British pound sterling will require adjustments in our reported earnings and operations to reflect exchange rate translation in our Canadian and United Kingdom sales and operations. Our reported financial results will be impacted in response to such currency fluctuations. If the U.S. dollar strengthens in value as compared to the value of the Canadian dollar or British pound sterling, our reported earnings in dollars from sales in those currencies will be unfavorable. During 2007, the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies of the countries in which we have operating locations has deteriorated significantly. The increase in value of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar could result in an economic disadvantage for our Canadian operating locations, as lower cost products from the United States may become more economically viable alternatives to the products we offer. If the value of the U.S. dollar continues to deteriorate, or remain at the current levels for an extended period of time, this could result in negative business consequences for our Canadian operations. Alternatively, products that we produce in the United States may be more competitive in foreign markets that we serve. We do not have any control over exchange rates, as these are largely driven by worldwide economic factors. 12 Table of Contents We have limited international protection of our intellectual property. We own a number of patents and trademarks under the intellectual property laws of the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Our patent protections begin expiring in 2014. However, we have not perfected patent and trademark protection of our proprietary intellectual property in other countries. The failure to obtain patent and trademark protection in other countries may result in other companies copying and marketing products that are based upon our proprietary intellectual property. This could impede our growth into new markets where we do not have such protections and result in greater supplies of similar products, which in turn could result in a loss of pricing power and reduced revenue. We may not achieve benefits from future acquisitions. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses that we expect would complement and expand our existing products and services. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination or other transaction on acceptable terms. In addition, the timing and success of our efforts to acquire any particular business and integrate the acquired business into our existing operations cannot be predicted. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • the need to integrate acquired operations, internal controls and operational functions; • potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; • an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; and • increased debt or dilution from issuance of common stock. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated benefits from an acquisition. Disruption of our relationships with key suppliers would adversely affect our business. We rely upon third party steel mills to manufacture steel for our track component products based upon specifications that we provide. In 2007, approximately 82% of our domestic requirements for steel were purchased from two primary suppliers, and approximately 83% of our Canadian requirements were purchased from two primary Canadian suppliers. In the event our steel suppliers for railroad track products were to go out of business, refuse to continue their business relationship with us or become subject to work stoppages, our business could be disrupted. While management believes that it could secure alternative manufacturing sources, there can be no assurance that we would not incur substantial delays and significant expense in securing such alternative suppliers. Furthermore, alternative suppliers might charge significantly higher prices than we currently pay. Under such circumstances, the disruption to our business may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. If we lose key personnel or qualified technical staff, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. We believe that the attraction and retention of qualified personnel is critical to our success. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business will be adversely affected. Our operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance of our senior management team, which includes Richard J. Jarosinski, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Konstantinos Papazoglou, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and John N. Pesarsick, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of one or all members of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because our senior management team has many years experience with our company and within the industries in which we operate, it would be difficult to replace them without adversely affecting our business operations. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with any members of our senior management team. 13 Table of Contents As we expand our sales of products and services internationally, we will increase our exposure to international economic and political risks. Historically, substantially all of our business was conducted in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. International revenues outside of our core United States, Canada and United Kingdom markets accounted for 7.0% and 8.0% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We are placing increased emphasis on the expansion of our international sales opportunities. Doing business outside the United States subjects us to various risks, including changing economic and political conditions, work stoppages, exchange controls, currency fluctuations, armed conflicts and unexpected changes in United States and foreign laws relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, transportation regulations, foreign investments and taxation. Increasing sales to foreign countries will expose us to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have no control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter our business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these possible changes. We have a significant pension liability, which may significantly increase our funding requirements under ERISA and other applicable regulations. We maintain defined benefit pension plans in the United States and United Kingdom that cover a significant number of our current employees, former employees and retirees. These defined benefit pension plans were frozen effective December 31, 2003. Our actuaries currently project that our obligations to the pension plan’s beneficiaries exceed the plan’s assets. The shortfall in plan assets may cause us to fund significant amounts of cash into these plans to cover any minimum funding requirements under regulatory requirements. As a result, in 2008, we will be required to make a minimum contribution to our U.S. defined benefit plan of $861,000, of which $492,000 relates to the 2007 plan year and $369,000 relates to the 2008 plan year. Additionally, in 2008, we will be required to make a minimum contribution to our U.K. defined benefit plans of $231,000 (£116,000 pounds sterling). Our retirement benefit plan liability is inversely impacted by the interest rate used in our actuary’s calculation. As a result, when interest rates decline, our actuarially calculated benefit plan liability increases. Conversely, as interest rates increase, the actuarially calculated retirement benefit plan liability decreases. In 2007, an increase in interest rates caused a decline in our actuarially calculated benefit plan liability. Although our liability was reduced, our retirement benefit plan liability still exceeded the fair value of plan assets. However, as the increase in interest rates decreased the actuarially calculated retirement benefit plan liability between December 31, 2006 and 2007, we increased our shareholders’ equity by $1,380,000 in order to reflect the reduction in our minimum pension liability. For the same period of the prior year, our shareholders’ equity was reduced by $396,000 in order to reflect an increase in our minimum pension liability. Further declines in the market value of these defined benefit pension plan assets will have an adverse impact on our shareholder’s equity and uses of cash for other investment opportunities. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered to be a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, a significant decrease in the market value of an asset, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. Warranty claims for defective products adversely affect our business and financial results. Most of our products are covered by a warranty. We establish warranty reserves for expected warranty claims based upon our historical experience, or for known warranty issues and their estimable replacement costs. If we became aware of a significant product defect that could result in product recalls or replacements, we could incur significant costs, which would adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We became aware of a problem during the second quarter 2007 with RMP’s Bonded to Rail (BTR) joint bars in which the epoxy that is used as the primary method of adhesion to the rail appeared to fail in certain instances. The BTR is a finished good which includes two sections of rail, two joint bars and necessary hardware, and is sold as a final assembled product. We notified our BTR customers of this problem as soon as we became aware of it, and have extensively investigated the cause of the epoxy failure and performed field inspections of BTRs that may have been affected. We have identified the potential time period during which these BTRs were assembled and have continued to correct any possible deficiencies. We feel reasonably certain that we have identified the causes of the problem and that we have corrected these deficiencies from recurring. The BTR products manufactured by RMP are covered by a standard one-year replacement warranty. Accordingly, we have accounted for any contingent costs associated with the remediation of the BTRs under FASB 5 Accounting for Contingencies, specifically Accrual for Loss Contingencies and Obligations Related to Product Warranties and Product Defects. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized warranty expense of $1.3 million related to potentially defective BTRs. This amount is included in cost of goods sold for the RMP business segment. The balance in the BTR warranty reserve at December 31, 2007 is $573,000, which management expects to be adequate to cover expected future costs associated with potentially defective BTRs. Although we believe that $573,000 is a reasonable estimate of our potential exposure for warranty claims on BTRs as of December 31, 2007, changes in the components of our estimate due to new information and future events could cause this estimate to vary significantly. There can be no assurance at this point that future costs pertaining to this issue will not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry Our sales can fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonal factors or our railroad customers’ capital expenditure or routine maintenance spending programs. Our sales can fluctuate from quarter to quarter because of several factors. First, the demand for certain of our railroad product lines, including rail joints, rail anchors and spikes, is subject to seasonal fluctuations. We generally experience strong sales in the second and third quarters as a result of seasonal pick-up in construction and trackwork due to favorable spring weather conditions, compared with an expected downturn in the first and fourth quarter of each year due largely to reductions in construction and trackwork in the winter months. Notwithstanding expected seasonal fluctuations, many of our customers are large companies which, as a matter of routine purchasing practices, place large orders for our products and services that can have a disproportionate impact on our revenues in a particular quarter. Such large orders in any given quarter improve the sales performance of that quarter. Conversely, if a major customer delays spending in a particular quarter, our revenue decreases in that quarter. A decrease in rail traffic or rail capital expenditures due to weakness in the general economy or competitive factors could adversely affect our operating results. Weakness in the general economy, or factors such as work stoppage or competition from other modes of transportation, can cause a decrease in rail transportation or rail capital expenditures, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, railroads directly compete with the trucking industry for the transportation of freight. In the event that the transportation of freight by truck becomes preferable as a result of pricing, legislative developments or other factors, the profitability of railroads would be adversely affected resulting in a decrease in capital spending. A decrease in capital spending by our railroad customers could result in lower sales of our products and decreased revenue. Competition and innovation by our competitors may adversely affect our business. The markets for our products are highly competitive. Competition is based on price, product performance, technological leadership, customer service and other factors. Technological innovation in the railroad and railroad supply industry has evolved and continues to evolve. Technological innovation by any of our existing competitors, or new competitors entering any of the markets in which we do business, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In particular, our business would be adversely affected if any existing or new competitors developed improved or less expensive products. 15 Table of Contents New or existing competitors may import track component products for sale in the North American market at reduced prices. Our rail joint, rail anchor, rail spike and other track component market share could be reduced by new or existing competitors importing either raw material steel for these products or finished products from lower cost foreign sources. Standard rail joints are currently available, imported from Asia, and have been approved for use and are being purchased by some Class I and short line railroads. Further consolidation of the railroad industry may adversely affect our business. Over the past 10 years there has been a consolidation of railroad carriers operating in North America. Currently, seven Class I railroads operate in the United States, along with two major railroads in Canada and two major railroads in Mexico. Future consolidation of the railroad industry may affect our sales and result in reduced income because the loss of a Class I account to competitors would have greater significance to our operations. Risk Factors Relating to Our Stock Ownership Potential voting control by directors, management and employees could make a takeover attempt more difficult to achieve. Our directors, management and employees control a significant percentage of our common stock. Executive officers and directors as a group own 3,023,842 shares, or 31% of the outstanding shares as of December 31, 2007. If these individuals were to act together, they could have significant influence over or control the outcome of any shareholder vote. This voting power may discourage takeover attempts that other shareholders may desire. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 