RISK FACTORS An investment in the American depositary shares representing our common shares involves a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following information about the risks we face, together with the other information contained in this document, in evaluating us and our business. Risks Relating to Competition Competition in the Korean financial services industry is intense, and we may experience a loss of market share and declining margins as a result. We compete principally with other national commercial banks in Korea but also face competition from other sources, including foreign banks operating in Korea, government-owned development banks, specialized banks and regional banks, as well as various other types of financial institutions, including credit card companies, securities companies and asset management companies. Competition in the Korean financial services industry has been, and is likely to remain, intense, and we believe that regulatory reforms and the general modernization of business practices in Korea has led, and will lead, to increased competition among financial institutions in Korea. In particular, we believe that foreign financial institutions, many of which have greater experiences and resources than we do, will continue to enter the Korean market and compete with us in providing financial products and services either by themselves or in partnership with existing Korean financial institutions. Furthermore, the Korean banking industry is undergoing consolidation as well as several other developments. For example, Kookmin Bank may convert itself into a financial holding company and the Government is reportedly considering privatizing the whole or part of the government-invested development banks, including Korea Development Bank and Woori Financial Holding. The financial institutions resulting from these developments may, by virtue of their increased size, expanded business scope and more efficient operations, add further competitive pressure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with these or other domestic and foreign financial institutions. Over the past several years, competition has been particularly fierce in our core banking area of small- to medium-enterprise lending, as most Korean banks have focused their business on this area after reducing their exposure to large corporations. Such trend has contributed to, and may further aggravate, lower profitability and asset quality problems in this area. Competition has also been intense in the credit card business, as Korean banks and credit card companies have engaged in aggressive marketing activities, which may result in asset quality problems previously experienced with respect to credit card receivables. In addition, when the Financial Investment Services and Capital Market Act becomes effective in February 2009, which has been enacted with the aim of promoting integration and rationalization of the Korean capital markets and financial investment products industry, it may further intensify competition among financial institutions in Korea. Increased competition and market saturation from any or all of the foregoing developments may result in a loss of market share and declining margins. In particular, if other banks and financial institutions adopt the strategy of competing on the basis of reduced interest rates, we may be required to do the same, which would undermine our net interest margin and profitability in addition to customer attrition resulting from competition. Any of such developments would have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, financial condition and results of operation. Risks Relating to Our Banking Business We have significant exposure to small- and medium-sized enterprises, and financial difficulties experienced by such enterprises may result in a deterioration of our asset quality and have an adverse impact on us. One of our core banking businesses is lending to small- and medium-sized enterprises (as defined in 