Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. To understand these risks and to evaluate an investment in our common stock, you should read this entire prospectus, including the following risk factors. Our Business Strategy of Growth Through Acquisitions Could Have an Impact on Our Earnings and Results of Operations That May Negatively Impact the Value of Our Stock.Our business strategy includes both internal expansion and acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions successfully, integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. Further, there can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our operating results while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect our earnings. These adverse effects on our earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of our stock. We May Experience Higher Levels of Loan Loss Due to Our Recent Growth.Our growth strategy depends on generating an increasing level of loans to produce an acceptable return to our shareholders. We will also need to accomplish this loan growth while maintaining low loan losses in our portfolio. A significant portion of our growth is expected to occur in markets that are relatively new to us, including those areas served by the banks we acquired in 2004, Savings Bank of Manchester and Tolland Bank, and areas of future expansion, including Fairfield County, Connecticut, through our acquisition of Cornerstone Bank. Strong Competition Within Our Market Areas May Limit Our Growth and Profitability.Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. As we grow, we will be expanding into market areas where we may not be as well known as other institutions that have been operating in those areas for some time. In addition, regional, super regional and national interstate banking institutions have become increasingly active in our market areas. Many of these competitors, in particular the regional, super regional and national institutions, have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot efficiently provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to grow profitably. 18 Table of Contents Changes in Interest Rates Could Have an Impact on Our Earnings and Results of Operations, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on The Value of Our Stock.Our consolidated results of operations depend to a large extent on the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. If interest-rate fluctuations cause the cost of interest-bearing liabilities to increase faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, our net interest income will decrease. If the cost of interest-bearing liabilities declines faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, our net interest income will increase. We measure our interest-rate risk using simulation analyses with particular emphasis on measuring changes in net interest income in different interest-rate environments. The simulation analyses incorporate assumptions about balance sheet changes, such as asset and liability growth, loan and deposit pricing and changes due to the mix and maturity of such assets and liabilities. Other key assumptions relate to the behavior of interest rates and spreads, prepayments of loans and the run-off of deposits. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the simulation analyses cannot precisely estimate the impact that higher or lower rate environments will have on net interest income. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, changes in cash flow patterns and market conditions, as well as changes in management’s strategies. While we use various monitors of interest-rate risk, we are unable to predict future fluctuations in interest rates or the specific impact of these fluctuations. The market values of most of our financial assets are sensitive to fluctuations in market interest rates. Fixed rate investments, mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans typically decline in value as interest rates rise. Prepayments on mortgage-backed securities may adversely affect the value of such securities and the interest income generated by them. Changes in interest rates can also affect the amount of loans that we originate, as well as the value of our loans and other interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains on the sale of such assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which our borrowers prepay their loans. When interest rates increase, borrowers are less likely to prepay their loans, and when interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay loans. Funds generated by prepayments might be invested at a less favorable interest rate. Prepayments may adversely affect the value of mortgage loans, the levels of such assets that we retain in our portfolio, net interest income and loan servicing income. Increases in interest rates might cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, such as regular savings accounts, to accounts with a higher cost, such as certificates of deposit. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect net interest income. We May Not Pay You Dividends if We Are Not Able to Receive Dividends From Our Subsidiary, NewAlliance Bank.Cash dividends from NewAlliance Bank and our liquid assets are our principal sources of funds for paying cash dividends on our common stock. Unless we receive dividends from NewAlliance Bank or choose to use our liquid assets, we may not be able to pay dividends. NewAlliance Bank’s ability to pay us dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 