Item 1A. Risk Factors This Report includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we may make other written and oral communications from time to time that contain forward-looking statements. All statements regarding our expected financial position, strategies and growth prospects and general economic conditions we expect to exist in the future are forward-looking statements. The words “anticipates,” “believes,” “feels,” “expects,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “strives,” “plans,” “intends,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “position,” “target,” “mission,” “assume,” “achievable,” “potential,” “strategy,” “goal,” “aspiration,” “outcome,” “continue,” “remain,” “maintain,” “trend,” “objective,” and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “might,” “can,” “may” or similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement is made and we do not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance. The risk factors contained below could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance. Our access to capital through our credit agreement is critical to our ability to continue to grow. If our available credit is materially reduced or the credit agreement is terminated and we are unable to replace it on favorable terms or at all, our ability to purchase charged-off receivables and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We believe that access to capital through our credit agreement has been critical to our ability to maintain our operations. Our inability to obtain financing and capital as needed or on terms acceptable to us would limit our ability to acquire additional receivable portfolios and to operate our business. We have a $100.0 million revolving line of credit that expires June 5, 2012 and a $150.0 million term loan facility that matures on June 5, 2013. If our available credit is materially reduced or the credit agreement is terminated as a result of noncompliance with a covenant or other event of default and if we are unable to replace it on relatively favorable terms or at all, our ability to purchase charged-off receivables to generate collections and cash flow and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. All of our receivable portfolios are pledged to secure amounts owed to our lenders under our credit agreement. In addition, our credit agreement imposes a number of restrictive covenants on how we operate our business. These include financial covenants. As of December 31, 2010, we had the ability to borrow an additional $55.8 million under the most restrictive of these financial covenants. Our ability to meet these financial covenants is predicated on our ability to continue to generate revenues and other financial results at levels 13 Table of Contents sufficient to satisfy the requirements of our credit agreement. Failure to satisfy any one of these covenants could result in all or any of the following consequences, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business: • acceleration of outstanding indebtedness; • our inability to continue to purchase charged-off receivables needed to operate our business; or • our inability to secure alternative financing on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our credit agreement contains limitations and restrictions as to our ability to seek additional credit from other lenders, and requires that a portion of proceeds from issuance of our stock be used to pay down our term loan facility. Failure to comply with government regulation could result in the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct business and the imposition of financial penalties. The collections industry is regulated under various federal and state laws and regulations. Many states and several cities require that we be licensed as a debt collection company. The Federal Trade Commission, state Attorneys General and other regulatory bodies have the ability to investigate consumer complaints against debt collection companies and to recommend enforcement actions and seek monetary penalties. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could result in significant penalties or the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct collection operations, which could materially adversely affect us. We may not be able to resolve the investigation by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) to our satisfaction. The FTC is conducting an investigation into our debt collection practices under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Federal Trade Commission Act, which may result in a decree that would impose injunctive relief and a civil money penalty on the Company. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to resolve the matter on satisfactory terms, an action by the FTC may result in limitations on the manner in which we conduct our debt collection practices that may materially harm our business and reduce our profitability and prospects. Our ability to recover on our charged-off consumer receivables may be limited under federal, state and local laws. Federal and state consumer protection, privacy and related laws and regulations extensively regulate the relationship between debt collectors and debtors. Federal and state laws may limit our ability to recover on our charged-off consumer receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit card issuers may preclude us from collecting on charged-off consumer receivables we purchase if the credit card issuer previously failed to comply with applicable law in generating or servicing those receivables. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted that would impose additional or more stringent requirements on the enforcement of and collection on consumer receivables. New federal, state or local laws or regulations, such as regulations adopted by the new federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or changes in the ways these rules or laws are interpreted or enforced, could limit our activities in the future or significantly increase the cost of regulatory compliance. Any new laws, such as the Credit CARD Act of 2009 that limits fees and interest charges on credit card holders, rules or regulations that may be adopted, as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws, may adversely affect our ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of 14 Table of Contents operations. In addition, federal and state governmental bodies are considering, and may consider in the future, other legislative proposals that would regulate the collection of consumer receivables. The FTC has proposed amendments to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act that, if enacted, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although we cannot predict if or how any future legislation would impact our business, our failure to comply with any current or future laws or regulations applicable to us could limit our ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios, which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. In addition to the possibility of new laws being enacted, it is possible that regulators and litigants may attempt to extend debtors’ rights beyond the current interpretations placed on existing statutes. These attempts could cause us to (i) expend significant financial and human resources in either litigating these new interpretations or (ii) alter our existing methods of conducting business to comply with these interpretations, either of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. A significant portion of our collections depend on our success in individual lawsuits brought against consumers and our ability to collect on judgments in our favor. We generate a significant portion of our revenue by collecting on judgments that are granted by courts in lawsuits filed against debtors. A decrease in the willingness of courts to grant such judgments, a change in the requirements for filing such cases or obtaining such judgments, or a decrease in our ability to collect on such judgments could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. The FTC has issued a report encouraging states to impose specific, greater restrictions on litigation to collect consumer debt. As we increase our use of the legal channel for collections, our short-term margins may decrease as a result of an increase in upfront court costs and costs related to counter claims. We may not be able to collect on certain aged accounts because of applicable statutes of limitations. We may be unable to obtain account documents for some of the accounts we purchase which may negatively impact our ability to collect those accounts. Courts in some jurisdictions require that a copy of the account statements or applications be attached to the pleadings in order to obtain a judgment against the account debtors. If we are unable to produce account documents, these courts will deny our claims. We may be subject to adverse effects of regulatory changes that we cannot predict. We are subject to ongoing risks of litigation, including individual and class actions under consumer credit, collections, and other laws. We operate in an extremely litigious industry and currently are, and may in the future, be named as defendants in litigation, including individual and class actions under consumer credit, collections, and other laws. Negative attention and news regarding the debt collection industry and individual debt collectors may have a negative impact on a debtor’s willingness to pay the debt we acquire. The following factors may cause consumers to be more reluctant to pay their debts or to pursue legal actions against us: • Annually the FTC submits a report to Congress, which summarizes the complaints it has received regarding debt collection practices. The report contains the total number of complaints filed, the percentage of increases or decreases from the previous year in addition to an outline of key types of complaints. • Print and television media publish stories about the debt collection industry which cite specific examples of abusive collection practices. These stories are also published on websites, which can lead to the rapid dissemination of the story adding to the level of exposure to negative publicity about our industry. • The Internet has websites where consumers list their concerns about the activities of debt collectors and seek guidance from other website posters on how to handle various situations. • Advertisements by “anti-collections” attorneys and credit counseling centers are becoming more common and add to the negative attention given to our industry. 15 Table of Contents As a result of this negative publicity, debtors may be more reluctant to pay their debts or could pursue legal action against us regardless of whether those actions are warranted. These actions could impact our ability to collect on the receivables we acquire and impact our ability to operate profitably. Instability in the financial markets, continued economic weakness or a new economic recession may affect our access to capital and our ability to purchase and collect receivables. High unemployment rates may negatively affect our collections of charged-off consumer receivables. Our success depends on our continued ability to purchase and collect charged-off consumer receivables. The unemployment rate in the United States remains elevated compared to historical levels. Residential real estate values remain depressed, negatively affecting consumers’ ability to pay debts. Individual consumers have been experiencing high delinquency rates on various consumer loans and decreased availability of credit. We have experienced the impact of these economic factors on our collections. Continued depression or further declines in real estate values, continued high levels of unemployment and continuing credit and liquidity concerns could further reduce our ability to collect on our purchased consumer receivable portfolios and would adversely affect their value. Financial pressure on the distressed consumer may lead to regulatory restrictions on our collections and increased litigation filed against us. We may be unable to predict the likely duration or severity of any adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are not able to purchase charged-off consumer receivables at appropriate prices or in sufficient amounts, the resulting decrease in our inventory of purchased portfolios of receivables could adversely affect our ability to generate cash collections and income. If we are unable to purchase charged-off consumer receivables from credit originators in sufficient face value amounts at appropriate prices, our business may be harmed. The availability of portfolios of consumer receivables at prices which generate an appropriate return on our investment depends on a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, including: • our ability to borrow to fund purchases; • the absence of significant contraction in the levels of credit being extended by credit originators; • the absence of significant contraction in the levels of consumer obligations; • charge-off rates; • continued growth in the number of industries selling charged-off consumer receivable portfolios; • continued sales of charged-off consumer receivable portfolios by credit originators; • debt sellers willingness to sell portfolios to us; • competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and credit originators of charged-off receivables, including the number of firms engaged in the collection business and the capitalization of those firms, as well as new entrants seeking returns, that may cause an increase in the price we are willing to pay for portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables or cause us to overpay for portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables. In addition, we believe that credit originators and debt sellers are utilizing more sophisticated collection methodologies that result in lower quality portfolios available for purchase, which may render the portfolios available for sale less collectible. Because of the length of time involved in collecting charged-off consumer receivables on acquired portfolios and the volatility in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing or collection strategies in a timely manner. 16 Table of Contents A significant portion of our portfolio purchases during any period may be concentrated with a small number of sellers. We expect that a specific percentage of our portfolio purchases for any given fiscal year may be concentrated with a few large sellers, some of which also may involve forward flow arrangements. The consolidation of major banks in recent years has resulted in fewer sellers of charged-off consumer receivables. We cannot be certain that any of our significant sellers will continue to sell charged-off receivables to us on terms or in quantities acceptable to us, or that we would be able to replace such purchases with purchases from other sellers. A significant decrease in the volume of purchases from any of our principal sellers would force us to seek alternative sources of charged-off receivables. We may be unable to find alternative sources from which to purchase charged-off receivables, and even if we could successfully replace such purchases, the search could take time, the receivables could be of lower quality, cost more, or both, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our operations could suffer from telecommunications or technology downtime or from not responding to changes in technology. Our success depends in large part on sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, through casualty or operating malfunction (including outside influences such as computer viruses), could disrupt our operations. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately. Any failure of our information systems or software and their backup systems would interrupt our operations and harm our business. Computer and telecommunications technologies evolve rapidly. We may not be successful in anticipating, managing or adapting technological changes on a timely basis, which could reduce our profitability or disrupt our operations and harm our business. In addition, we rely significantly on various outside vendors for the software used in operating our current collections platform. Our business operations would be disrupted and our results of operations may be harmed if they were to cease operations or significantly reduce their support to us. We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. Our industry is relatively new and unique and, as a result, there is not a set of well defined laws, regulations or case law for us to follow that match our particular facts and circumstances for some tax positions. Therefore, certain tax positions we take are based on industry practice, tax advice and drawing similarities of our facts and circumstances to those in case law relating to other industries. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base and apportionment. Challenges made by tax authorities to our application of tax rules may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, as well as, inconsistent positions between different jurisdictions on similar matters. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our management team for the adoption and implementation of our strategies and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends on the continued ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled management. The continued growth and success of our business is particularly dependent upon the continued services of our Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our other executives. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key associates could disrupt our operations and impair our ability to continue to acquire or collect on portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables and to manage and expand our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies for our executive officers or key associates. 17 Table of Contents We generally account for purchased receivable revenues using the interest method of accounting in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which requires making reasonable estimates of the timing and amount of future cash collections. If the timing is delayed or the actual amount recovered by us is materially different from our estimates, it could cause us to recognize impairments and negatively impact our earnings. The estimates used in the interest method (“Interest Method”) to calculate the projected internal rate of return (“IRR”) on our portfolios are primarily based on historical cash collections and payer dynamics. If actual future cash collections are materially different in amount or timing than the remaining collections estimate, earnings could be affected, either positively or negatively. Higher collection amounts or cash collections that occur sooner than projected will have a favorable impact to revenue due to reversal of impairments or increases in yields and revenues. Higher than projected collections could also have a short term impact of increased amortization, which results in lower net income. Lower collection amounts or cash collections that occur later than projected will have an unfavorable impact and result in an impairment of the purchased receivable balance. Impairments may cause reduced earnings or volatility in earnings which could have the effect of depressing the price per share of our common stock and reducing our consolidated tangible net worth and put pressure on the financial covenants in our credit facilities. Refer to “Critical Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition” on page 51 for further information regarding the Interest Method and estimates. We may not be able to collect sufficient amounts on our charged-off consumer receivables, which would adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to satisfy debt obligations, our purchase of new portfolios and our future growth. Our business consists of acquiring and collecting receivables that consumers have failed to pay and that the credit originator has deemed uncollectible and has charged-off. The credit originators or other debt sellers generally have attempted to recover on their charged-off consumer receivables before we purchase such receivables, often using a combination of in-house recovery and third party collection efforts. Because there generally have been multiple efforts to collect on these portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables before we attempt to collect on them, our attempts to collect may not be successful. Therefore, we may not collect a sufficient amount to cover our investment associated with purchasing the charged-off consumer receivable portfolios and the costs of running our business, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if cash flows from operations are less than anticipated, our ability to satisfy our debt obligations, purchase new portfolios and achieve growth and profitability may be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our success in generating collections in the past will be indicative of our ability to be successful in generating collections in the future. We are highly dependent on revenues generated from our purchased receivable collection activities. Entry into new markets or other attempts to diversify our business model may not be successful. Substantially all our operating revenues are generated from collections on charged-off purchased receivables. Although we use multiple collection approaches, changing economic factors or collection laws, for example, may impact our ability to collect regardless of the collection approach we pursue. Although management may seek opportunities to diversify, we may not be successful. We experience high turnover rates for our account representatives. We may not be able to hire and retain enough sufficiently trained account representatives to support our operations. Our ability to collect on new and existing portfolios and to acquire new portfolios is substantially dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified associates. The consumer accounts receivables management industry is labor intensive and, similar to other companies in our industry, we experience a high rate of associate turnover. For 2010, our annual turnover rate was 79.6% and our collection department associate turnover rate was 111.7%. Based on our experience, account representatives who have been with us for more than one year are generally more productive than account representatives who have been with us for less than one year. In 2010, our turnover 18 Table of Contents rate for all associates employed by us for at least one year was 51.6% and 76.1% for collection department associates. We compete for qualified associates with companies in our industry and in other industries. Our operations require that we continually hire, train and, in particular, retain account representatives. In addition, we believe the level of training we provide to our associates makes them attractive to other collection companies, which may attempt to recruit them. A higher turnover rate among our account representatives will increase our recruiting and training costs, may require us to increase associate compensation levels and will limit the number of experienced collection associates available to service our charged-off consumer receivables. If this were to occur, we may not be able to service our charged-off consumer receivables effectively, which could reduce our ability to operate profitably. Significant increases in interest rates could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our credit agreement bears interest at 200 to 250 basis points over prime or 300 to 350 basis points over the London Inter Bank Offer Rate. Although a portion of our outstanding borrowings have a fixed rate of interest resulting from a swap agreement, a portion is not fixed. In addition, in the future, we may amend our credit agreement, which could significantly impact the rates of interest we pay. As a result of these factors, fluctuations in interest rates may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We face intense competition that could impair our ability to achieve our goals. The consumer debt collection industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a wide range of other purchasers of charged-off consumer receivables, third party collection agencies, other financial service companies and credit originators and other owners of debt that manage their own charged-off consumer receivables. Some of these companies may have substantially greater numbers of associates and financial resources and may experience lower account representative turnover rates than we do. Furthermore, some of our competitors may obtain alternative sources of financing, the proceeds from which may be used to fund expansion and to increase their number of charged-off portfolio purchases. Barriers to entry into the consumer debt collection industry are low. Companies with greater financial resources than we have may elect at a future date to enter the consumer debt collection business. Competitive pressures affect the availability and pricing of receivable portfolios as well as the availability and cost of qualified debt collection account representatives. In addition, some of our competitors have signed forward flow contracts under which consumer credit originators have agreed to transfer a steady flow of charged-off receivables to them in the future, which could restrict those credit originators from selling receivables to us. We face bidding competition in our acquisition of charged-off consumer receivable portfolios. We believe successful bids generally are awarded based predominantly on price and to a lesser extent based on service and relationships with debt sellers. Some of our current competitors, and possible new competitors, may have more effective pricing and collection models, more efficient operating structure, greater adaptability to changing market needs and more established relationships in our industry than we have. Moreover, our competitors may elect to pay prices for portfolios that we determine are not reasonable and, in that event, our volume of portfolio purchases may be diminished. There can be no assurance that our existing or potential sources will continue to sell their charged-off consumer receivables at recent levels or at all, or that we will continue to offer competitive bids for charged-off consumer receivable portfolios. In addition, there continues to be a consolidation of issuers of credit cards, which have been a principal source of our receivable purchases. This consolidation has decreased the number of sellers in the market and, consequently, could over time, give the remaining sellers increasing market strength in the price and terms of the sale of charged-off credit card accounts and could cause us to accept lower returns on our investment in that paper than we have historically achieved. If we are unable to develop and expand our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors, we may experience reduced access to portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables in sufficient face-value amounts at appropriate prices. As a result, we may experience reduced profitability which, in turn, may impair our ability to achieve our goals. 19 Table of Contents We may acquire charged-off receivable portfolios in industries in which we may have little or no experience. If we do not successfully collect on these portfolios, revenue may decline and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may acquire portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables in industries in which we have limited experience some which may have specific regulatory restrictions with which we have no experience. Our limited experience in these industries may impair our ability to effectively and efficiently collect on these portfolios. Furthermore, we need to develop appropriate pricing models for these markets, and there is no assurance that we will do so effectively. When pricing charged-off consumer receivables for industries in which we have limited experience, we attempt to adjust our models for expected or known differences from our traditional models. However, our pricing models are primarily based on historical data for industries in which we do have experience. This may cause us to overpay for these portfolios, and consequently, our profitability may suffer as a result of these portfolio acquisitions. Our operating results and cash collections may vary from quarter to quarter. Our business depends on the ability to collect on our portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables. Collections within portfolios tend to be seasonally higher in the first and second quarters of the year, due to consumers’ receipt of tax refunds and other factors. Conversely, collections within portfolios tend to be lower in the third and fourth quarters of the year, due to consumers’ spending in connection with summer vacations, the holiday season and other factors. Operating expenses are seasonally higher during the first and second quarters of the year due to expenses necessary to process the increase in cash collections. However, revenue recognized is relatively level due to our application of the Interest Method for revenue recognition. In addition, our operating results may be affected to a lesser extent by the timing of purchases of portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables due to the initial costs associated with purchasing and integrating these receivables into our system. Consequently, income and margins may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our collections may decrease if bankruptcy filings increase or if bankruptcy laws change. During times of economic recession, the amount of charged-off consumer receivables generally increases, which contributes to an increase in the number of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings, a debtor’s assets are sold to repay creditors, but since the charged-off consumer receivables we are attempting to collect are generally unsecured or secured on a second or third priority basis, we often would not be able to collect on those receivables. Our collections may decline with an increase in bankruptcy filings or if the bankruptcy laws change in a manner adverse to our business, in which case, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our common stock trades at a relatively low average daily volume. Consequently, sales of our common stock by one or more of our larger shareholders could depress the price of our common stock. The majority of our shares of common stock are held by relatively few shareholders. As of February 3, 2011, our directors, executive officers and beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock controlled approximately 85.8% in total of our outstanding shares. Our largest shareholder, AAC Quad-C Investors, LLC (“Quad-C”), which controls 35.7% of our common stock, and our fourth largest shareholder, Nathaniel F. Bradley IV, our chairman, who controls 12.4% of our common stock, have an agreement with the Company obligating it to register their shares with the SEC for sale. In May 2008, Quad-C exercised that right as to all of its shares and there is currently on file with the SEC an effective shelf registration statement permitting Quad-C to engage in a public sale of its shares. A sale of its shares of the Company’s common stock by Quad-C or other significant holders may have the effect of depressing the price per share of our common stock because of the relatively low trading volume in our shares. 20 Table of Contents The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill annually or at any time when events occur which could affect the fair value of these assets. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of the asset’s fair value with its book value. Several factors are considered when calculating fair value, some of which involve significant management estimates. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as adverse changes in business climate, declining expectations of cash flows or operating results, adverse actions by regulators, unanticipated competition, or changes in technology or markets, could require an impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings and reduce our consolidated net worth and shareholders’ equity. We have anti-takeover provisions, any of which may discourage takeover attempts and could reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Delaware law could have the effect of discouraging takeover attempts which certain shareholders might deem to be in their interest. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes and each class is elected for a three-year term. This provision could make it more difficult for our shareholders to remove members of our board of directors and may also make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 