Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Though we have attempted to list comprehensively important cautionary risk factors, we wish to caution investors and others that other factors may in the future prove to be important in affecting our business or results of operations. Risks Related to the Run-off and to Syndicate 4000 Our self-managed run-off is subject to a number of risks. We have placed all of our lines of business in run-off with the exception of Syndicate 4000. Running off these businesses includes a number of risks, including the risk that we may not be able to mitigate our existing exposures to our historical underwriting risks, obtain the release of collateral when contracts are cancelled, recover amounts owed to us by our reinsurers and retrocessionaires, enter into commutations, cancellations or other arrangements to mitigate our liabilities, obtain premium that has been due but not paid to us for an extended period of time, release capital from these subsidiaries to our holding company where it is available to our shareholders, reduce our expenses such that they do not exceed income from in vestments, prevent investment losses, maintain sufficient liquidity in each of our subsidiaries to meet the obligations of those subsidiaries. Furthermore, we remain subject to extensive regulation and the risk that regulators may seek to supervise or gain and retain control over our subsidiaries, which would impede our efforts to extract capital from those subsidiaries over time. In addition, running-off these businesses creates substantial uncertainties and risks that may result in restructuring charges and unforeseen expenses and costs. In addition, as a result of commutations, loss portfolio transfers or other transactions, we may realize gains or losses of assets and liabilities that are different than the amount at which these are currently recorded. If any of these risks materializes, it may have a material adverse impact on the value of our assets, increase our operating costs or result in liquidity strains. We may experience unfavorable claims development or receive additional claims as well as delays or failures concerning amounts due from reinsurers or retrocessionaires, which could result in additional losses. Unfavorable claims experience related to the run-off of any or all of our lines of business may occur and would result in losses in the future as we still have policies in force that have terms of up to 14 years. In addition, as required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Standards, we have not established reserves for claims that may arise from losses occurring in the future on the policies that remain in force. Further, we have experienced some instances of slower payments from, and disputes about amounts owed to us with, our reinsurers and retrocessionaires. As a result, we may incur losses attributable to our inability to recover amounts from retrocessionaires or ceding companies either due to disputes with the retrocession aires or ceding companies, their financial condition or both. If our reserves for amounts recoverable from retrocessionaires or ceding companies, as well as reserves associated with the underlying reinsurance exposures are insufficient, it could result in losses and an increase in cost and management time related to arbitration and other dispute resolution. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints, including our credit facility, affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares, return capital, make payments on our indebtedness and other liabilities and our ability to redeem our series A preferred shares. Quanta Holdings is a holding company. As a result, we do not, and will not, have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries will be our sole source of funds to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders of our common and series A preferred shares, redeem or repurchase any or all of our series A preferred shares and to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses. For example, we did not pay dividends on the series A preferred shares in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 and did not pay interest on our pooled 29 Table of Contents trust preferred securities in the fourth quarter of 2006 and the first quarter of 2007. Additionally, as we run-off and wind-up our businesses we will be seeking, over time and subject to the approval of our regulators, to extract capital from our subsidiaries and dividend it to our holding company where it can be available to our shareholders. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends on our common and series A preferred shares and to redeem or repurchase any or all of our series A preferred shares for cash is limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain funds through dividends from our subsidiaries. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to make payments to Quanta Holdings is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the domiciles in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations subject our subsidiaries to significant restrictions and require, among other things, the submission and approval of a withdrawal plan or similar arrangements by regulators, the maintenance by some of our subsidiaries of minimum solvency requirements and the limitation of the amount of dividends that these subsidiaries can pay to us. In addition, following the withdrawal of our A.M. Best rating, the BMA, the regulator of one or our principal insurance subsidiaries, Quanta Bermuda, amended Quanta Bermuda’s license to, amon g other things, restrict it from making any dividend payments to Quanta Holdings without the prior approval of the BMA and to prohibit it from entering into certain transactions. There are also significant restrictions regarding our ability to remove the funds deposited to support part of the underwriting capacity of Syndicate 4000 at Lloyd’s. The inability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends or to return capital in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our operations and on our ability to pay dividends, redeem or repurchase our series A preferred shares and make payments on our indebtedness. We anticipate that the paying of dividends or the return of capital to the holding company will require regulatory approval. We will work, over time, with applicable regulatory authorities to facilitate dividends from our insurance subsidiaries to Quanta Holdings. Working with these regulators takes time and w ill require us to meet many conditions, especially given that most of our business is in run-off. We are subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares, redeem our series A preferred shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended, or the Companies Act, even though we are solvent and able to pay our liabilities as they become due, we may not declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution if we have reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or will after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due or if the realizable value of our assets will thereby be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and our issued share capital and share premium accounts. Risks Related to Any Dissolution of Our Business In the future, it is possible that we could be placed into liquidation either as a solvent entity or as an insolvent entity. A liquidation as a solvent entity is a voluntary liquidation approved by shareholders. If we were to become insolvent, we would have to be liquidated under the supervision of the Bermuda Supreme Court during which a court appointed liquidator of our company may or may not pursue a scheme of arrangement to shorten the time otherwise required to wind up our business. In a winding up or liquidation as described above, we or a liquidator would be appointed and would sell or otherwise dispose of our remaining assets, pay our existing liabilities, including contingent obligations (which would have to be estimated in advance of payment) and distribute net proceeds, if any, to our shareholders in one or more liquidation distributions. In a liquidation, we may not receive any material amounts for the sale or other disposition of our assets. Further, in a liquidation, we will have significant obligations, including the costs incurred by the independent liquidator appointed and the work required to estimate liabilities and realize assets. The amount and timing of distributions, if any, to shareholders in a liquidation cannot be predicted at this time because any distribution would depend on a variety of factors, including the amount of proceeds received from any asset sales or dispositions, the time and amount required to resolve outstanding obligations and the amount of any reserves for future contingencies. If we were to 30 Table of Contents become insolvent, it is unlikely that there will be distributions payable to our common shareholders. Common shareholders will rank last in order of priority of distribution in a liquidation. We are dependent on our executives and other key employees to run-off our business, to operate our Lloyd’s business and to identify, evaluate and complete any strategic transaction. We may not be able to retain our personnel or attract any needed new personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our company and the execution of our run-off plan. Our failure to retain members of our management team, key employees and other personnel and our inability to attract any needed new personnel or to use our existing personnel in new, altered or expanded roles could significantly and negatively affect our ability to conduct our self-managed run-off, to manage Syndicate 4000 and to evaluate and complete any strategic transaction. In order to retain the services of James J. Ritchie, our Executive Chairman, and Jonathan J.R. Dodd, our chief financial officer, and a number of other key employees, we have entered into retention agreements with these employees that provide for specified severance payments in the event of their termination without cause or following a change of control. H owever, we do not have a retention agreement with Peter D. Johnson, our chief executive officer, and he and our other employees who we did not enter into retention agreements with are not restricted from seeking employment with our competitors or others who may seek their expertise. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance or reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, are expected to pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment in a significant portion of business that we write it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency under local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when we are required to return premiums in connection with a cancellation or commutation, the brokers collect these payments from us but these premiums are not considered returned. Accordingly, the policy is not cancelled or commuted and our ris k is not terminated until the broker returns these premiums to the client. Lastly, our reinsurers and retrocessionaires in many cases make payments owed to us to brokers and these brokers, in turn, are expected to pay these amounts to us. If a broker fails to make such a payment to us, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining payment from the reinsurer or retrocessionaire or we may incur costs in enforcing the payment of amounts owed to us. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world with respect to most of our business. We face significant litigation relating to alleged securities law violations. Two class action lawsuits have been filed against Quanta Holdings and certain of its officers and directors on behalf of a putative class consisting of investors who purchased our publicly traded series A preferred securities and common shares. The complaints allege, among other things, that we made false, misleading and incomplete statements regarding loss estimates in violation of the federal securities laws. It is possible that additional lawsuits relating to these matters may be filed against us and/or certain of our current and former officers and directors in the future. It is also possible that administrative proceedings or regulatory proceedings could be commenced against us in the future. These lawsuits and any future proceedings could be expensive and could divert management’s attention and other resources away from other matters. Any such diversion of management’s attention or other resources could negatively and materially impact our self-managed run-off. We cannot predict the timing of any trials with respect to these lawsuits and any future proceedings. We are not currently able to estimate legal defense costs or the amount of any damages that we may be required to pay in connection with these lawsuits and any future proceedings. The class action lawsuits which could continue for a significant period, are currently at a very early stage and we have very little information as to the course either wi ll take. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation, particularly where the claimants seek indeterminate damages, we are unable to predict the outcome of these matters and at this time cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss or range of loss with respect to this lawsuit and any future proceedings. 31 Table of Contents We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the class action lawsuits. We have insurance coverage (above a certain self-insured retention) with respect to claims such as these lawsuits but it is not currently possible to determine whether such insurance coverage will be adequate to cover our defense costs and any losses. The existence of the class action lawsuits or the perceived probability of future proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common and series A preferred securities. Our business, results of operations and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by catastrophic events. Although we are no longer writing property reinsurance business that is exposed to catastrophes, certain lines of business that we have underwritten, including marine and aviation reinsurance and environmental, have large aggregate exposures, including to natural and man-made disasters such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability for periods of up to ten years. Additionally, we retain property exposure from our program business. Through the specie and fine arts products of Syndicate 4000 we also have exposure to natural and man-made disasters such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Our l oss experience generally has and, despite our exit from the property reinsurance and the technical risk property insurance markets, we expect that it will continue to be subject to infrequent events of great severity. In the future we may recognize additional net losses related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma and other catastrophes. If our actual losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma are materially greater than our estimated losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations in order to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results. Based on our current estimate of losses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we have exhausted our reinsurance and retrocessional protection with respect to Hurricane Katrina and our marine reinsurance with respect to Hurricane Rita. If our Hurricane Katrina losses prove to be greater than currently anticipated, we have no further reinsurance and retrocessional coverage available for that windstorm. If our marine reinsurance losses for Hurricane Rita prove greater than currently anticipated, we will have no further retrocessional coverage available for marine reinsurance losses for that windstorm. Additionally, the occurrence of additional large loss events could reduce the reinsurance coverage that is available to us and could weaken the financial condition of our reinsurers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Losses from these types of catastrophic events could eliminate our shareholders’ equity and statutory surplus (which is the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all admitted assets, as determined under statutory accounting principles). Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. We have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. In connection with management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control. For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of these material weaknesses, see ‘‘Item 9A. Controls and Procedures—Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.’’ Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. As a result, we must continue to develop and implement our remediation plan to address the material weaknesses and to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Our resources are constrained and 32 Table of Contents management is required to devote a significant amount of time and resources toward the run-off of our specialty insurance and reinsurance businesses, which could delay or otherwise negatively impact implementation of our remediation plan for our internal controls If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal controls as our business changes, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and Nasdaq, including a delisting from Nasdaq, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our securities. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We have identified control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a ‘‘material weakness’’ or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A ‘‘material weakness’’ is a significant deficiency, o r combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The report by us of a material weakness, including the material weaknesses identified in this annual report, may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate and the share price of our common and preferred shares and our business may be adversely affected. We may be required to post additional security under insurance and reinsurance agreements. If our actual losses exceed our estimates or as a result of future losses and other events, we may be required to post additional security under some of our insurance and reinsurance contracts either through the issuance of letters of credit or the placement of securities in trust under the terms of those insurance or reinsurance contracts. If we fail to maintain or enter into adequate letter of credit facilities on a timely basis, we would be required to place securities in trust or similar arrangements, which would be more difficult and costly to establish and administer and could lead to liquidity strains. If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be significantly adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and reinsure. To the extent actual claims exceed our expectations we will be required to immediately recognize the less favorable experience as we become aware of it. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities and reduction of capital. It is early in our history and the number and size of reported claims may increase, and their size could exceed our expectations. A portion of our business has high attachment points of coverage. Reserving for losses is inherently complicated in that losses in excess of the attachment level of our policies are characterized by high severity and low frequency, and other factors which could vary significantly as claims are settled. This limits the volume of relevant industry claims experience available from which to reliably predict ultimate losses following a loss event. In addition, there always exists a reporting lag between a loss event taking place and the reporting of the loss to us. These incurred but not reported losses are inherently difficult to predict. Because of the variability and uncertainty associated with loss estimation, it is possible that o ur individual case reserves for each catastrophic event and other case reserves are incorrect, possibly materially. 33 Table of Contents These factors require us to make significant assumptions when establishing loss reserves. Since we have insufficient past loss experience, we supplement this information with industry data. This industry data may not match our risk profile, which introduces a further degree of uncertainty into the process. Accordingly, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. In our reinsurance business line, like other reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is rectified. It is possible that claims in respect of events that have occurred could exceed our loss reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition in general. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. We have sought to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and by prudent underwriting of each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we sought per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. We cannot be sure that any of these loss limitation methods has been or will be effective. We also sought to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. We cannot assure you that various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will b e enforceable in the manner we intended. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. As a result, our actual claims could substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. Syndicate 4000 competes with a large number of companies in the insurance industry for underwriting revenues. Syndicate 4000 competes with a large number of other companies in its current selected lines of business. These competitors offer the lines of insurance that Syndicate 4000 offers, target the same markets as Syndicate 4000 and utilizes similar business strategies. Syndicate 4000 faces competition both from specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and intermediaries, as well as diversified financial services companies. Since Syndicate 4000 has a limited operating history, many of its competitors have greater name and brand recognition. Many of them also have more (in many cases substantially more) capital and greater marketing and management resources than Syndicate 4000 has and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we expect to, or will be able to, offer. Syndicate 4000’s competitive position is based on many factors, including its perceived financial strength, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. If competition limits its ability to write new and renewal business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. Restructuring of Syndicate 4000 may not be successful. Although the A.M. Best ‘‘A’’ (excellent) rated Lloyd’s market, including Syndicate 4000, was not subject to our 2006 rating actions, they did negatively impact our Lloyd’s operations during the year 34 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2006. Although we have restructured our Lloyd’s operations and we continue to work to diversify the provision of capital to the syndicate to support its presence in the Lloyd’s market, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. If these efforts are unsuccessful, our Lloyd’s segment operations could be adversely affected and our ability to obtain the return of our capital in Syndicate 4000 could be delayed. We may misevaluate the risks we seek to insure in the underwriting and pricing of our products in Syndicate 4000. If Syndicate 4000 misevaluates these risks, its actual incurred losses may be greater than its loss reserves, which would negatively impact its business and reputation and would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation. The market for Syndicate 4000’s specialty lines insurance products differs significantly from the standard market. In general, in the standard market, insurance rates and forms are highly regulated, products and coverages are largely uniform and have relatively predictable exposures and companies tend to compete for customers on the basis of price and service. In contrast, the specialty market, including the Lloyd’s market in which Syndicate 4000 operates, provides coverage for risks that do not fit the underwriting criteria of the standard carriers. Syndicate 4000 has a team of experienced underwriting officers and underwriters with specialized knowledge of their respective market segments. Its success will depend on the ability of these underwriters to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that it ensures. Underwriting for specialty lines products requires Syndicate 4000 to make assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond its control and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Further, underwriting for specialty lines presents particular difficulties because there is usually limited information available on the client’s loss history for the perils being insured. If Syndicate 4000 fails to adequately evaluate the risks to be insured, its business and reputation and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to an insurer and payment by the insurer of that loss. As we recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we will continue to establish reserves. These reserves represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Loss reserves are only an estimate of what an insurer anticipates the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments, particularly for new companies, such as ours, that have limited loss development experience. As part of our reserving process, we review historical data as well as actuarial and statistical projections and consider the impact of various factors such as: • trends in claim frequency and severity; • changes in operations; • emerging economic and social trends; • inflation; and • changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. In addition, unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. To the extent our loss reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses or loss adjustment expenses, we will have to add to these loss reserves and incur a charge to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our utilization of program managers and other third parties to support our business exposes us to operational and financial risks. In our program product line, we relied on program managers, and other agents and brokers participating in our programs, to produce and service a substantial portion of our business in this 35 Table of Contents segment. In these arrangements, we typically granted the program manager the right to bind us to newly issued insurance policies, subject to underwriting guidelines we provided and other contractual restrictions and obligations. Should our managers have issued policies that contravene these guidelines, restrictions or obligations, we could nonetheless be deemed liable for these policies. We aim to resist claims that exceed or expand on our underwriting intention, however, it is possible that we would not prevail in such an action, or that our program managers would be unable to substantially indemnify us for their contractual breach. We also relied on our managers, or other third parties we retained, to collect premiums and to pay valid claims. While we strive to mitigate these risks through our contractual arrangement with the program managers and other third parties, we remain exposed to these credit and operational risks, without necessarily relieving us of our obligations to potential insureds. We could also be exposed to potential liabilities relating to the claims practices of the third-party administrators we have retained to manage claims activity that we expect to arise in our program operations. Although we have implemented auditing and other oversight protocols for our program, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to alleviate all of these exposures. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds and similar arrangements may have a negative impact on our financial condition. Virtually all states in the U.S. require insurers licensed to do business therein to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are levied by guaranty associations or similar entities within the state, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in the state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer was engaged during the period in which the member insurer was engaged in those lines of business. Accordingly, we may be assessed in the future on a portion of premiums we wrote before we commenced our self-managed run-of f. The effect of these assessments and arrangements, or changes in them, could have a negative impact on our financial condition in any given period. Continued or increased levies by Lloyd’s for the Lloyd’s Central Fund and cash calls for trust fund deposits or a significant downgrade of Lloyd’s A.M. Best rating would materially and adversely affect us. We participate in Lloyd’s through Syndicate 4000. Whenever any member of Lloyd’s is unable to pay its debts to policyholders or to meet certain other obligations, these debts or obligations may be payable by the Lloyd’s Central Fund. The Lloyd’s Central Fund protects Lloyd’s policyholders against the failure of a member of Lloyd’s to meet its obligations. The Central Fund is a mechanism that, in effect, ‘‘mutualizes’’ unpaid liabilities among all members, whether individual or corporate. The fund is available to back Lloyd’s policies issued after 1992. Lloyd’s requires members to contribute to the Central Fund in the form of an annual contribution and by making, through the syndicates on which they participate, annual subordinated loans to Lloyd’s whose proceeds are held in the Central Fund. The Council of Lloyd’s has discretion to require members to make further Central Fund contributions of up to 3% of their underwriting capacity in any one year. Policies issued in syndicate years that have not been closed before 1993 have been reinsured by Equitas, an independent insurance company authorized by the Financial Services Authority, or FSA. However, if Equitas were to fail or otherwise be unable to meet all of its obligations, Lloyd’s may take the view that it is appropriate to apply the Central Fund to discharge those liabilities Equitas failed to meet. In that case, the Council of Lloyd’s may resolve to impose a special or additional levy on the existing members, including corporate members such as Quanta 4000, effectively requiring them to fund the performance of those obligations. Additionally, Lloyd’s insurance and reinsurance business is subject to local regulation. Regulators in the United States require Lloyd’s to maintain certain minimum deposits in trust funds as protection for policyholders in the United States. These deposits may be used to cover liabilities in the event of a major claim arising in the United States and Lloyd’s may require Quanta 4000 Limited to satisfy cash calls to meet claims payment obligations and to maintain minimum trust fund amounts. 36 Table of Contents Any premium levy or cash call would increase the expenses of Syndicate 4000 and Quanta 4000, its corporate member, without providing compensating revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results. The Lloyd’s market is currently rated ‘‘A’’ (excellent) by A.M. Best. In the event that Lloyd’s rating is downgraded below ‘‘A–’’ in the future, the downgrade could have a material adverse effect on our ability to underwrite business through Syndicate 4000 and on our financial condition or results of operations. The availability of reinsurance and retrocessional coverage that we use to limit our exposure to risks may be limited, and counterparty credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To limit our risk of loss and to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results, we used reinsurance and retrocessional coverage, which is reinsurance of a reinsurer’s business. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. Currently, there is a high level of demand for these arrangements. The occurrence of additional large loss events could reduce the reinsurance coverage that is available to us and could weaken the financial condition of our reinsurers which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew adequate protection at cost-effective levels in t he future. As a result of market conditions and other factors, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Further, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires will not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements, our failure to cause reinsurers or retrocessionaires or meet their obligations to us or the failure of our reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our business, financial con dition and results of operations. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism and political unrest, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have exposure to unexpected losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages we write, we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, we have written policies explicitly limiting the exposure of our clients to the credit worthiness of their commercial trade partners in some emerging markets or to political uncertainty in those countries which could interfere with the execution of commercial contracts they have entered into. These risks are inherently unpredictable and may increase the frequency or severity of losses. It is difficult to pr edict the timing of such events or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. To the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. We must continue to develop, implement and integrate new software and systems. Our software systems are not fully developed, implemented or integrated. We continue to rely on many manual processes, which have an increased risk of errors and require more controls than we expect to need once our systems are fully developed, implemented and integrated. A defect or failure in our controls could have a materially adverse effect on our business. While we have acquired new software and systems responsible for accounting, claims management, modeling and other tasks, we must continue to implement and integrate these software and systems with each other and with those that we are developing ourselves. In addition, we must acquire or obtain the right to use additional software and systems and continue to develop t hose systems as well as any systems that we are creating internally. Our failure to acquire, implement or integrate our systems in a timely and effective manner could impede our ability to execute our run-off plan. This failure could significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents We rely on our information technology and telecommunication systems, and the failure of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process claims, commutations and cancellations, to facilitate collections and to monitor our investment portfolio. These systems also enable us to perform actuarial and other modeling functions. We believe our technology and telecommunications systems are critical to our business and our ability to compete successfully. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license upon which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we cannot be certain that we will have continued access to these third-party systems and we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. In addition, we cannot make any assurances that our systems will continue to operate as intended. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business and provide customer service or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. We have hired and may continue to hire a number of non-Bermudians to work for us in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) or a holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. The Bermuda government recently announced a new policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, wi th certain exemptions for key employees. While we have been able to obtain work permits that we have needed for our employees to date, we can not assure you that we will not encounter difficulties in the future. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our key employees if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant amount of our invested assets is subject to market volatility. We invest the premiums we received from customers. Our investment portfolio currently contains highly rated and liquid fixed income securities. Our investment portfolio is invested by several professional investment advisory management firms under the direction of our management team in accordance with our investment guidelines and are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. The volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities. The obligations under the credit facility are currently fully secured by investments and cash. If a default occurs under the credit agreement, our lenders may require us to cash collateralize a portion or all of the outstanding lette rs of credit issued under the facility, which may be accomplished through the substitution or liquidation of collateral. These events may cause us to incur capital losses. Our investment results and, therefore, our financial condition may also be impacted by changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in interest rates, government monetary policies, general economic conditions and overall market conditions. Further, if we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, which will affect our ability to conduct business. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may 38 Table of Contents arise under insurance and reinsurance policies, we expect our liquidity needs will be substantial and may arise at any time. Increases in interest rates during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs may result in losses. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. In addition, our investment portfolio includes highly-rated mortgage-backed securities. As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. In periods of increasing interest rates, these investments are exposed to extension risk, which occurs when the holders of underlying mortgages reduce the frequency on which t hey prepay the outstanding principal before the maturity date and delay any refinancing of the outstanding principal. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may cause us to experience losses. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Our operating currency generally is also the U.S. dollar. However, the premiums receivable and losses payable in respect of a portion of our business is denominated in currencies of other countries. For example, Syndicate 4000 operates in pounds sterling. We attempt to manage our foreign currency risk by seeking to match our liabilities under insurance and reinsurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies either with forward purchase contracts or with investments that are denominated in these currencies. To the extent we believe that it may be practical, we hedge our foreign currency exposure with respect to potential losses by maintaining assets denominated in the same currency or entering into forward purchase contracts for specific currencies. We use forward purchase contracts when we are advised of known or probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies in order to manage currency fluctuation exposure. We also use forward purchase contracts to hedge our non-U.S. dollar currency exposure with respect to premiums receivable, which will be generally collected over the relevant contract term to the extent practical and to the extent we do not expect we will need these receipts to fund potential losses in such currencies. We also make foreign currency-denominated investments, generally for the purpose of improving overall portfolio yield. However, we may not be successful in reducing foreign currency exchange risks. As a result, we may from time to time experience losses resulting from fluctuations in values of foreign currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our returns may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the severity of claims to rise in the future. Our reserve for losses and loss expenses will include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these costs, we would be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Our liability transfer program may expose us to liability. We have created two liability assumption programs under which a special-purpose entity assumes specified liabilities associated with environmental exposures. Our liability assumption program requires 39 Table of Contents extensive technical skills and judgments in order to evaluate the significant risks associated with the properties subject to the program. We are exposed to substantial liabilities related to the environmental conditions associated with assuming liabilities with respect to these properties that could materially adversely affect our financial position. We are subject to extensive regulation in Bermuda, the United States, Ireland and Lloyd’s, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives in Syndicate 4000 and our run-off objectives. If we do not comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions and withdrawals of licenses, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision and to the regulation and supervision of Lloyd’s with respect to Syndicate 4000. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than shareholders and other investors. These regulations, generally administered by a department of insurance in each jurisdiction in which we will do business, relate to, among other things: • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • licensing of insurers and their agents; • limits on the size and nature of risks assumed; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; • restrictions on our ability to transfer shares in our insurance company subsidiaries and our Lloyd’s subsidiary; • restrictions on transactions between insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates; • restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; • approval of policy forms and premium rates; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • periodic examinations of our operations and finances; • prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and • requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. Insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements and potentially more frequent and detailed periodic examinations owing to our run-off status may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. Regulation in the United States. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the United States has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which is an association of the insurance regulatory officials of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. In addition, surplus lines associations in various states are asserting themselves more aggressively. Federal legislation is also being discussed that would require all states to adopt uniform standards relating to certain regulation of products, licensing, rates and market conduct. We are unable t o predict whether any of these or other proposed laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our run-off operations and financial condition. 40 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous federal regulations, including the Securities Act of 1933, the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws. As we continue with the run-off of our business, we must monitor our compliance with these laws, including our maintenance of any available exemptions from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Any failure to comply with these laws or maintain our exemption could have a material adverse effect on our operations and on the market price of our common and series A preferred shares. Regulation in Bermuda. Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re are registered Bermuda insurance companies and subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. The applicable Bermuda statutes and regulations generally are designed to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re are not registered or licensed as insurance companies in any jurisdiction outside Bermuda, conduct business through offices in Bermuda and do not maintain an office in, and their personnel do not conduct any insurance activities in, the United States or elsewhere. Inquiries or challenges to the activities of Quanta Bermuda or Quanta U.S. Re. may be raised in the future. Regulation in Ireland. Quanta Europe is a non-life insurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland subject to the regulation and supervision of the Irish Financial Regulator, or FR, under the Irish Insurance Acts, 1909 to 2000 and the regulations relating to insurance business and directions made under those regulations, or together, the Insurance Acts and Regulations. In addition, Quanta Europe is subject to certain additional supervisory requirements of FR for authorized non-life insurers that fall outside the strict legislative framework, such as guidelines issued by FR in 2001 requiring actuarial certification of certain reserves. Among other things, without consent of FR, Quanta Europe is not permitted to reduce the level of its initial capital, or make any dividend payments or loans. Regulation in Lloyd’s. The business of Syndicate 4000 is subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority, as established by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, through its regulation of the managing agent of the syndicate and its regulation of the Society of Lloyd’s itself. Under this Act, the Financial Services Authority has broad powers of intervention. The Financial Services Authority requires that the managing agent of the syndicate carry out a capital assessment of the syndicate in order to determine whether any additional capital should be held by the syndicate on account of any particular risks arising from its business or operational infrastructure. This assessment (known as an ‘‘individual capital assessment’’) is reviewed and may be challenged by Lloyd’s. Syndicate 4000’s individual capital assessment for the year ending December 31, 2006 has been revi ewed and approved by Lloyd’s. The business of Syndicate 4000 is also subject to regulation by the Council of Lloyd’s, and its two members, one of which is our subsidiary Quanta 4000, are also subject to the rules imposed under regulations and byelaws made, and amended from time to time, by the Council of Lloyd’s under powers conferred on it by Lloyd’s Act 1982. Under these rules, Lloyd’s prescribes, in respect of its managing agents and corporate members, certain minimum standards relating to their management and control, solvency and various other requirements. The Financial Services Authority monitors the Lloyd’s market to ensure that managing agents’ compliance with the systems and controls prescribed by Lloyd’s ena bles those managing agents to comply with its relevant requirements. If it appears to the Financial Services Authority that either Lloyd’s is not fulfilling its regulatory responsibilities, or that managing agents are not complying with the applicable regulatory sections or market requirements prescribed by Lloyd’s, the Financial Services Authority may exercise broad powers of intervention. We may be subject to U.S. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment. Quanta Holdings and Quanta Bermuda are Bermuda companies and Quanta Europe is an Irish company. We believe we are managing our business so that each of these companies is not treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States and, as a result, will not be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, 41 Table of Contents because there is considerable uncertainty as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not be able to successfully contend that any of Quanta Holdings or its foreign subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Quanta Holdings or any of its foreign subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a business in the United States, we could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of our earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. See ‘‘Item 1. Business—Material Tax Considerations—Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Taxation of Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda, Quanta Europe, Quanta U.S. Holdings, Quanta Specialty Lines, Quanta U.S. Re and Quanta Indemnity.’’ Quanta Holdings’ U.S. subsidiaries might be subject to additional U.S. tax on a portion of their income if a subsidiary is considered a personal holding company, or PHC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status will depend on whether more than 50% of our shares by value could be deemed to be owned (under some constructive ownership rules) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of the income of any of its U.S. subsidiaries, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, consists of ‘‘personal holding company income,’’ which is, in general, certain forms of passive and investment income. We believe based upon information made available to us regarding our shareholder base tha t none of Quanta Holdings’ subsidiaries should be considered a PHC. Additionally, we believe we are managing our business to minimize the possibility that we will meet the 60% income threshold. However, because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate share ownership (i.e., as determined by the constructive ownership rules for PHCs), we cannot assure you that none of Quanta Holdings’ subsidiaries will be considered PHC or that the amount of U.S. tax that would be imposed if it were not the case would be immaterial. See ‘‘Item 1. Business—Material Tax Considerations—Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Taxation of Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda, Quanta Europe, Quanta U.S. Holdings, Quanta Specialty Lines, Quanta U.S. Re and Quanta Indemnity—Personal Holding Companies.’’ We may be subject to additional Irish tax or U.K. tax. If any of our non-Irish companies were considered to be resident in Ireland, or to be doing business in Ireland, or, in the case of our U.S. subsidiaries which qualify for the benefits of an existing tax treaty with Ireland, to be doing business through a permanent establishment in Ireland, those companies would be subject to Irish tax. If we or any of our subsidiaries were considered to be resident in the United Kingdom, or to be carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, those companies would be subject to United Kingdom tax. If any of our U.S. subsidiaries were subject to Irish tax or U.K. tax, that tax would generally be creditable against their U.S. tax liability, subjec t to limitations. If we or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries were subject to Irish tax or U.K. tax, that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and on the value of our shares. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. A number of multinational organizations, including the European Union, the Financial Action Task Force, the Financial Stability Forum, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, have published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. Tax haven jurisdictions that do not cooperate with the OECD could face sanctions imposed by OECD member countries. In the OECD’s report dated June 26, 2000, Bermuda was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices by the end of 2005 and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial 42 Table of Contents domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether these changes will subject us to additional taxes. In addition, we cannot assure you that the OECD will not adopt measures that will have a negative impact on Bermuda companies. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re, an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re or any of their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. See ‘‘Item 1. Business—Material Tax Considerations—Certain Bermuda Tax Considerations.’’ Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Risks Related to the Industry The insurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates at Syndicate 4000. Historically, insurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic and other loss events, levels of capacity, general economic and social conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance industry. As a result, the insurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorabl e premium levels. The supply of insurance may increase, either due to capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services at Syndicate 4000. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds may affect the cycles of the insurance business significantly. We expect that the returns on our investment in Syndicate 4000 will be impacted by the cyclical nature of the insurance industry. The existence of negative market conditions may affect our ability to write insurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot write our specialty lines of insurance at Syndicate 4000 at appropriate rates, our ability to transact our business in the Lloyd’s market would be significantly and advers ely affected. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect the run-off of our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Recent examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: • larger settlements and jury awards against professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance; and • a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of business in our industry. 43 Table of Contents The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorism legislation may negatively affect the results of operation and business of Syndicate 4000. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, was enacted by the U.S. Congress and became effective in November 2002 in response to the tightening of supply in some insurance markets resulting from, among other things, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. TRIA generally requires U.S. property and casualty insurers, including Syndicate 4000’s policies issued in the U.S. to offer terrorism coverage for certified acts of terrorism to their policyholders at the same limits and terms as for other coverages. Exclusions or sub-limited coverage may be established, but solely at the policyholder’s discretion. The U.S. Treasury has the power to extend the application of TRIA to our non-U.S. insurance operating subsi diaries as well. TRIA created a temporary federal reinsurance program to reduce U.S. insurers’ risk of financial loss from certified acts of terrorism. TRIA’s requirement to offer coverage, as well as the federal reinsurance program, has been extended and is now scheduled to expire on December 31, 2007. While federal reinsurance is available, coverage under the federal reinsurance program is limited. Accordingly, the requirements under TRIA may negatively affect Syndicate 4000’s results of operation and business. Risks Related to our Securities Our series A preferred shares have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common shares, and the holders of our series A preferred shares might exercise their right to appoint two directors to our board of directors which might result in decisions that prejudice the economic interests of the holders of our common shares in favor of the holders of our series A preferred shares. Our series A preferred shares rank senior to our common shares with respect to the payment of dividends and distributions upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. So long as any series A preferred shares remain outstanding, if dividends for all outstanding series A preferred shares have not been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has not been set aside, then no dividend may be paid or declared on our common shares and our common shares may not be purchased or redeemed. Additionally, our series A preferred shares require us to redeem our series A preferred shares after the occurrence of certain change of control events, which may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control of us. The holders of our series A preferred shares will also have voting rights to elect two directors to our board of directors if dividends on our series A preferred shares have not been declared by the board of directors and paid for an aggregate of six full dividend periods (whether or not consecutive). We did not pay the dividends on the series A preferred shares for the second and third quarters of 2006 and will not pay dividends on the series A preferred shares for the first quarter of 2007. In addition, we did not pay interest on the Company’s pooled trust preferred securities and are prohibited from paying dividends on the series A preferred shares until we have paid the accumulated interest on the Company’s pooled trust preferred securities. We cannot assure you that we will pay the accumulated interest on the Company’s pooled trust preferred securities and a dividend on the series A preferred shares for the second quarter of 2007 or for future periods. If we fail to p ay dividends on the series A preferred shares for two additional dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), our series A preferred shares will have voting rights to elect two directors to our board of directors. The appointment of such directors to our board of directors might reduce the efficiency of our board of directors’ decision-making or result in decisions that prejudice the economic interests of the holders of our common shares in favor of the holders of our series A preferred shares. Our series A preferred shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. Our series A preferred shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. Consequently, our series A preferred shares rank junior to all of our indebtedness, such as our junior 44 Table of Contents subordinated debentures and our secured letter of credit and revolving credit facility, and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy our claims, including in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. Our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payments of dividends on our series A preferred shares. We may issue additional indebtedness from time to time. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of our series A preferred shares (1) dividends are payable only if declared by our board of directors and (2) as a corporation, we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends and redemption price out of lawfully available funds. Dividends on our series A preferred shares are non-cumulative. Dividends on our series A preferred shares are non-cumulative. Consequently, if our board of directors (or a committee of the board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period, holders of our series A preferred shares would not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accrue and will not be payable. We will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if our board of directors (or a committee of the board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent dividend period with respect to our series A preferred shares. Under certain limited circumstances, we are obligated to redeem or purchase our series A preferred shares. Prior to December 15, 2010, we may redeem some or all of our series A preferred shares only under certain limited circumstances. On and after December 15, 2010, at our option, we may redeem some or all of our series A preferred shares. Our series A preferred shares have no maturity date or redemption date. We may be required to offer to redeem the series A preferred shares at a price of $25.25 per share, plus declared but unpaid dividends and additional amounts, if any, to the date of redemption upon the occurrence of specified change of control events. Holders of our series A preferred shares may not otherwise require us to redeem or repurchase our series A preferred shares under any circumstances. We may redeem the series A preferred shares before December 15, 2010 for certain tax events. We may also, at our option, on and after December 15, 2010, redeem some or all of our series A preferred shares at any time at the redemption price set forth in the Certific ate of Designation for our series A preferred shares. We do not need the consent of the series A preferred shareholders in order to redeem our series A preferred shares and may do so at any time after December 15, 2010 that is advantageous to us. If we redeem our series A preferred shares, holders of the series A preferred shares may not be able to reinvest the proceeds in alternative investments that will compensate them in a manner commensurate with our series A preferred shares. Provisions in our charter documents may reduce or increase the voting power associated with our shares. Our bye-laws generally provide that common shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. Our Certificate of Designation generally provides that the holders of our series A preferred shares do not have any voting rights unless dividends on the series A preferred shares have not been declared by the board of directors and paid for an aggregate of six full dividend periods (whether or not consecutive). Pursuant to a mechanism specified in our bye-laws and Certificate of Designation, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold more than 9.5% of the voting power conferred by our shares. In addition, our board of directors retains certain discretion to make adjustments to the aggregate number of votes attaching to the shares of any shareholder that they consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to ensure that no person will hold more than 9.5% of the voting power represented by our then outstanding shares. Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the right to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing 45 Table of Contents the voting power of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. As a result of any reduction in the votes of other shareholders, your voting power might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares, which may result in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reduced pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to our request, we may, in our sole discretion, determine that the votes of that shareholder shall be disregarded until the shareholder provides the requested information. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our organizational documents and in our Certificate of Designation for our series A preferred shares may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, tender offer or other change of control that holders of our shares may consider favorable. These provisions impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect various corporate actions. These provisions could: • have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us; • discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the price; • adversely affect the price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our securities; or • impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders including: • Interested director transactions. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, any transaction entered into by us in which a director has an interest is not voidable by us nor can such director be accountable to us for any benefit realized under that transaction provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing to the directors. In addition, our bye-laws allow a director to be taken into account in determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he has an interest following a declaration of the interest pursuant to the Companies Act unless the chairman of the meeting determines otherwise. U.S. companies are generally required to obtain the approval of a majority of disinterested directors or the approval of shareholders before entering into any transaction or arrangement in which any of their directors have an interest, unless the transaction or arrangement is fair to the company at the time it is authorized by the company’s board or shareholders. • Certain transactions with significant shareholders. As a Bermuda company, we may enter into certain business transactions with our significant shareholders, including asset sales, in which a significant shareholder receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders. Such transactions may be entered into with prior approval from our board of directors but without obtaining prior approval from our shareholders. U.S. companies in general may not enter into business combinations with interested shareholders, namely certain large shareholders and affiliates, unless the business combination had been approved by the board in advance or by a supermajority of shareholders or the busi ness combination meets specified conditions. 46 Table of Contents • Shareholders’ suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. In general, under Bermuda law, derivative actions are permitted only when the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of the company’s memorandum of association or bye-laws. In addition, Bermuda courts would consider permitting a derivative action for acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, acts that require the approval of a greater percentage of the company’s shareholders than those who actually approved them. • Indemnification of directors and officers. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, we may indemnify our directors, officers or any other person appointed to a committee of the board of directors (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) to the full extent permitted by law against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense incurred or suffered by such person by reason of any act done, concurred in or omitted in the conduct of our business or in the discharge of his/her duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty (as determined in a final judgment or decree not subject to appeal) on the part of such director, officer or other person. Under our bye-laws , each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers or directors. In general, U.S. companies may limit the personal liability of their directors as long as they acted in good faith and without knowing violation of law. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who own shares of a U.S. corporation. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, some of our officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are, and will continue to be, located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securi ties laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We have been advised that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or these persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S . federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. 47 Table of Contents Holders of our shares who own 10% or more of our voting power may be subject to taxation under the ‘‘controlled foreign corporation,’’ or CFC, Rules. Each ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholder’’ of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s ‘‘subpart F income,’’ even if the subpart income is not distributed. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholders’’ own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the c orporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. A CFC also includes a foreign corporation in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts generating subpart F income exceeds specified limits. For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a CFC, and therefore whether the more-than-50% (or more-than-25%, in the case of insurance income) and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities or shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. Furthermore, whenever dividends on our series A preferred shares and the parity stock then outstanding have not been declared by the board of directors and paid for an aggregate of at least six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, holders would be entitled to certain voting rights. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, could assert that accrual of these voting rights on default of the series A preferred shares cause certain U.S. holders of series A preferred shares to be 10% U.S. Shareholders and us, or any of our foreign subsidiaries, to be a CFC. Due to the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership and certain bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares and that authorize the board to purchase its shares under specified circumstances, we do not believe that we have any 10% U.S. shareholders. It is possible, however that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. If we determine that your ownership of our shares may result in adverse consequences, we may require you to sell your shares to us. Our bye-laws provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its shares at a purchase price equal to their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if our board of directors in its absolute discretion determines that the share ownership of that shareholder may result in adverse tax consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any other shareholder. To the extent possible under the circumstances, the board of directors will use its best efforts to exercise this option equally among similarly situated shareholders. Our right to require a shareholder to sell its shares to us will be limited to the purchase of a number of shares that we determine is necessary to avo id or cure those adverse tax consequences. U.S. persons who hold shares could be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered a ‘‘passive foreign investment company’’ for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We do not intend to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a passive foreign investment company. However, it is possible that we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company by the IRS for any prior or future year. If we were considered a passive foreign investment company it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign 48 Table of Contents investment company provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be issued in the future. We cannot predict what impact, if any, this guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. We have not sought and do not intend to seek an opinion of legal counsel as to whether or not we were a passive foreign investment company for any period. U.S. persons who hold shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation on their pro rata share of our ‘‘related party insurance income.’’ If: • Quanta Europe’s or Quanta Bermuda’s related party insurance income equals or exceeds 20% of that company’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, • direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or indirectly) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda, and • U.S. persons are considered to own in the aggregate 25% or more of the stock of either corporation by vote or value, then a U.S. person who owns shares of Quanta Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder’s pro rata share of Quanta Europe’s or Quanta Bermuda’s related party insurance income for the U.S. person’s taxable year that includes the end of the corporation’s taxable year determined as if such related party insurance income were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition any related party insurance income that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization will be tr eated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of related party insurance income earned by Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda or any person related to such shareholder) will depend on a number of factors, including the geographic distribution of Quanta Europe’s or Quanta Bermuda’s business and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda. Although we do not expect our related party insurance income to exceed 20% of our gross insurance income in the foreseeable future, some of the factors which determine the extent of related party insurance income in any period may be beyond Quanta Europe’s or Quanta Bermuda’s control. Consequently, Quanta Europe’s or Quanta Bermuda’s related party insurance income could equal or exceed 20% of its gr oss insurance income in any taxable year and ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons could equal or exceed the 20% threshold described above. The related party insurance income rules provide that if a shareholder that is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related party insurance income (even if the amount of related party insurance income is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income or the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to related party insurance income). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Quanta Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. 49 Table of Contents Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. The U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a passive foreign investment company or whether U.S. persons would be required to include in their gross income the subpart F income or the related party insurance income of a CFC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding related party insurance income are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be issued in the future. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such regulations or guidance will have a retroactive effect. Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements included in this annual report, including those using words such as ‘‘believes,’’ ‘‘expects,’’ ‘‘intends,’’ ‘‘estimates,’’ ‘‘projects,’’ ‘‘predicts,’’ ‘‘assumes,’’ ‘‘anticipates,’’ ‘‘plans,’’ and ‘‘seeks’’ and comparable terms, are forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a ‘‘safe harbor’’ for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact and reflect our views and assumptions as of the date of this annual report regarding future events and operating performance. Because of our limited operating history, many statements relating to us, our self-managed run-off and our business in Syndicate 4000, including statements relating to our position, operations and business strategies, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. We believe that these factors include but are not limited to the following: • We have placed all of our lines of businesses in run-off, with the exception of Syndicate 4000. Running off these businesses includes a number of risks, including the risk that we may not be able to mitigate our existing exposures to our historical underwriting risks, obtain the release of collateral when contracts are cancelled, recover amounts owed to us by our reinsurers and retrocessionaires, enter into commutations or other arrangements to mitigate our liabilities, obtain premium that has been due but not paid to us for an extended period of time, release capital from our subsidiaries to our holding company where it is available to our shareholders, reduce our expenses such that they do not exceed income from investments, prevent investment losses, maintain sufficient liquidity in each of our subsidiaries to meet the obligat ions of those subsidiaries or retain control over our subsidiaries; • The execution of our run-off plan is expected to create substantial uncertainties and risks that may result in restructuring charges and unforeseen expenses and costs. In addition, as a result of commutations, loss portfolio transfers or other transactions, we may realize gains or losses of assets and liabilities that are different than the amount at which these are currently recorded. There can be no assurance that any of these initiatives or their results will not negatively impact our results of operations; • Our existing policy obligations in certain lines of business that we have underwritten, including marine, technical risk and aviation reinsurance and environmental insurance, continue to have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability, in certain cases for up to ten years, and our results may continue to be volatile as a result; • Our ability to pay dividends from our subsidiaries to Quanta Holdings is restricted by regulations in Bermuda, several states in the United States, the European Union and the UK. In addition, the BMA has, pursuant to its regulatory discretion, amended the license of Quanta Bermuda, our principal subsidiary in Bermuda, to require that it, among other things, seek the approval from the BMA prior to paying any dividend to Quanta Holdings and 50 Table of Contents prohibiting it from engaging in any new transactions. We are working with the applicable regulatory authorities to facilitate dividends from our insurance operating subsidiaries to Quanta Holdings. Completing this work is expected to take a long period of time and requires us to meet many conditions, particularly the discharge of all our policy obligations; • Our current estimates of our exposure to ultimate claim costs associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma are based on available information, claims notifications received to date, industry loss estimates, output from industry models, a review of affected contracts and discussions with brokers and clients. The actual amount of losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma may vary significantly from our estimates based on such data, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations; • Our ability to execute our run-off plan, operate our Lloyd’s business and evaluate and complete any strategic transactions is dependent on our ability to retain our, or attract any needed new, executives and key employees. Our inability to retain, attract and integrate members of our management team, key employees and other personnel could significantly and negatively affect the execution of our run-off plan, our Lloyd’s operations and the preservation of shareholder value; • If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be significantly adversely affected; • The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations; • Based on our current estimate of losses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we have exhausted our reinsurance and retrocessional protection with respect to Hurricane Katrina and our marine reinsurance with respect to Hurricane Rita. If our Hurricane Katrina losses prove to be greater than currently anticipated, we have no further reinsurance and retrocessional coverage available for that windstorm. In addition, if our marine reinsurance losses for Hurricane Rita prove greater than currently anticipated, we will have no further retrocessional coverage available for marine reinsurance losses for that windstorm. Furthermore, if there are further catastrophic events relating to our underwriting exposures, our retrocessional coverage for these events may be limited or we may have no coverage at all; • If we receive additional premium estimate reductions and cancellations in future periods, we may not receive all of our premiums receivable in cash, and our cash flows could be adversely affected; • We have a significant amount due from reinsurers and retrocessionaires who may refuse to pay our claims because we are a run-off company or for other reasons even when we believe those payments are contractually due to us. These actions, if taken, will increase our expenses as we take legal action and if we are unsuccessful in recovering these amounts, may have a negative impact on our financial results and position; • The failure to remedy any weakness found in our evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the material weaknesses identified in this report, may result in our financial statements being materially inaccurate and may cause the price of our common and preferred shares to be adversely affected; • Changes in the future availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; • Risks relating to potential litigation and arbitration; • Changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to us or our customers; • Risks relating to our reliance on program managers, third-party administrators, consultants and other supporting vendors for claim payments, data, premium collection and administrative functions; • Changes in accounting policies or practices; and 51 Table of Contents • Changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other factors. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from our projections. Additionally, the list of factors above is not exhaustive and should be read with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report under ‘‘Item 1A.—Risk Factors’’ and that are otherwise described from time to time in our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reports filed after this annual report. Any forward-looking statements you read in this annual report reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to, a mong other things, our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. You should specifically consider the factors identified in this annual report that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements before making an investment decision. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Market data and forecasts used in this annual report have been obtained from independent industry sources as well as from research reports prepared for other purposes. We have not independently verified the data obtained from these sources and we cannot assure you of the accuracy or completeness of the data. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these sources are subject to the same qualifications and uncertainties applicable to the other forward-looking statements in this annual report. 52 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 