Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves certain risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. To understand these risks and to evaluate an investment in our common stock, you should read this entire report, including the following risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly. Changes in Interest Rates and Spreads Could Have an Impact on Earnings and Results of Operations, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on The Value of NewAlliance Stock.NewAlliance’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, meaning the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect NewAlliance’s earnings and financial condition. The Company cannot predict with certainty or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, affect interest income and interest expense. The Company has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on NewAlliance’s profitability. For example, high interest rates could also affect the amount of loans that we originate, because higher rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages, or cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, to accounts with a higher cost or experience customer attrition due to competitor pricing. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect net interest income. Similarly, lower interest rates cause higher yielding assets to prepay and floating or adjustable rate assets to reset to lower rates. If the Bank is not able to reduce its funding costs sufficiently, due to either competitive factors or the maturity schedule of existing liabilities, then the Bank’s net interest margin will decline. NewAlliance’s Business Strategy of Growth Through Acquisitions Could Have an Impact on Earnings and Results of Operations That May Negatively Impact the Value of NewAlliance Stock.In recent years, NewAlliance has focused, in part, on acquisitions. Over the past four years, the Company has acquired four banking institutions, a non-depository trust company and a registered investment advisory firm. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. As of the date of this filing, there are no binding or definitive agreements, plans, arrangements, or understandings for such acquisitions by the Company. Although our business strategy includes both internal expansion and acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions successfully, integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. Further, there can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our operating results while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect our earnings. These adverse effects on our earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of our stock. If The Goodwill That The Company Has Recorded in Connection With Its Acquisitions Becomes Impaired, It Could Have a Negative Impact on The Company’s Profitability.Applicable accounting standards require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $531.2 million of goodwill on its balance sheet. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on NewAlliance’s financial conditions and results of operations. NewAlliance May Experience Higher Levels of Loan Losses Due to Recent Growth.NewAlliance’s growth strategy depends on generating an increasing level of loans to produce an acceptable return to our stockholders. We will also need to accomplish this loan growth while maintaining low loan losses in our portfolio. We expect growth to occur in markets that are relatively new to us, including central and western Massachusetts through our recent acquisition of Westbank. As such, NewAlliance’s allowance for loan losses may need to be increased, or may be deemed insufficient by various regulatory agencies. Such agencies may require the Bank to recognize an increase to the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the 16 allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on NewAlliance’s financial condition and results of operations. See the sections titled “Allowance for Loan Losses” and “Classification of Assets and Loan Review” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, located elsewhere in the Report for further discussion related to the process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. NewAlliance May Experience Higher Levels of Loan Losses Due to Economic Conditions.NewAlliance’s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operations and financial condition. For example, recent declines in housing activity including declines in building permits, housing starts and home prices may make it more difficult for our borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their debt. Sales may also slow, which could strain the resources of real estate developers and builders. Many analysts are now predicting the U.S. Economy is in or will experience a recession in the near term. This could affect employment levels and the ability of our borrowers to service their debt. The Bank may suffer higher loan losses as a result of these factors and the resulting impact on our borrowers. Strong Competition Within NewAlliance’s Market Areas May Limit Growth and Profitability.Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. As we grow, we will be expanding into market areas where we may not be as well known as other institutions that have been operating in those areas for some time. In addition, regional, super regional and national interstate banking institutions have become increasingly active in our market areas. Many of these competitors, in particular the regional, super regional and national institutions, have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot efficiently provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to grow profitably. NewAlliance May Not Pay You Dividends if NewAlliance is Not Able to Receive Dividends From Its Subsidiary, NewAlliance Bank.Cash dividends from NewAlliance Bank and our liquid assets are our principal sources of funds for paying cash dividends on our common stock. Unless we receive dividends from NewAlliance Bank or choose to use our liquid assets, we may not be able to pay dividends. NewAlliance Bank’s ability to pay us dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. NewAlliance is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and SupervisionNewAlliance, primarily through NewAlliance Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While NewAlliance has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. of this report for further information. NewAlliance May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled PeopleNewAlliance’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. NewAlliance Continually Encounters Technological Change The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology can increase efficiency and enable financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. However, some new technologies needed to compete effectively result in incremental operating costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many of the 17 Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. NewAlliance’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be CircumventedManagement regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Customer Information May be Obtained and Used FraudulentlyRisk of theft of customer information resulting from security breaches by third parties exposes the Company to reputation risk and potential monetary loss. The Company has exposure to fraudulent use of our customer’s personal information resulting from its general business operations and through customer use of financial instruments, such as debit cards. If a breach in security does occur in the marketplace and the financial data of our customers is compromised, the Company will react as quickly as possible to protect customer accounts and limit potential losses to the Company. NewAlliance’s Stock Price Can be Volatile.NewAlliance’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • recommendations by securities analysts; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or the Company’s competitors; • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to NewAlliance; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • changes in government regulations; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations could also cause NewAlliance’s stock price to decrease regardless of the Company’s operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 