Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves certain risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. To understand these risks and to evaluate an investment in our common stock, you should read this entire prospectus, including the following risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly. NewAlliance’s Business Strategy of Growth Through Acquisitions Could Have an Impact on Earnings and Results of Operations That May Negatively Impact the Value of NewAlliance Stock.In recent years, NewAlliance has focused, in part, on acquisitions. In 2004, Connecticut Bancshares and Alliance Bancorp were acquired. In 2005, Trust Company was acquired and in 2006, Cornerstone was acquired. The Company also completed its acquisition of Westbank in January 2007. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. As of the date of this filing, there are no binding or definitive agreements, plans, arrangements, or understandings for such acquisitions by the Company except for an agreement to acquire Connecticut Investment Management, Inc., a small investment advisory firm that will be merged into NewAlliance Investments, Inc. Although, our business strategy includes both internal expansion and acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions successfully, integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. Further, there can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our operating results while the operations of the acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect our earnings. These adverse effects on our earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the value of our stock. Changes in Interest Rates and Spreads Could Have an Impact on Earnings and Results of Operations, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on The Value of NewAlliance Stock.NewAlliance’s consolidated results of operations depend to a large extent on the level of our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. If interest-rate fluctuations or changes in spreads cause the cost of interest-bearing liabilities to increase faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, our net interest income will decrease. If the cost of interest-bearing liabilities declines faster than the yield on interest-earning assets, our net interest income will increase. The Company measures our interest-rate risk using simulation analyses with particular emphasis on measuring changes in net interest income in different interest-rate environments. The simulation analyses incorporate assumptions about balance sheet changes, such as asset and liability growth, loan and deposit pricing and changes due to the mix and maturity of such assets and liabilities. Other key assumptions relate to the behavior of interest rates and spreads, prepayments of loans and the run-off of deposits. These assumptions are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the simulation analyses cannot precisely estimate the impact that higher or lower rate environments will have on net interest income. Actual results will differ from simulated results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, changes in cash flow patterns and market conditions, changes in customer behavior, as well as changes in management’s strategies. While various monitors of interest-rate risk are used, the Company is unable to predict future fluctuations in interest rates or the specific impact of these fluctuations. The market values of most of our financial assets are sensitive to fluctuations in market interest rates. Fixed rate investments, mortgage-backed securities and mortgage loans typically decline in value as interest rates rise. 18 Prepayments on mortgage-backed securities may adversely affect the value of such securities and the interest income generated by them. Changes in interest rates can also affect the amount of loans that we originate, as well as the value of our loans and other interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains on the sale of such assets and liabilities. Prevailing interest rates also affect the extent to which our borrowers prepay their loans. When interest rates increase, borrowers are less likely to prepay their loans, and when interest rates decrease, borrowers are more likely to prepay loans. Funds generated by prepayments might be invested at a less favorable interest rate. Prepayments may adversely affect the value of mortgage loans, the levels of such assets that we retain in our portfolio, net interest income and loan servicing income. Increases in interest rates might cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower cost, such as regular savings accounts, to accounts with a higher cost, such as certificates of deposit. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect net interest income. NewAlliance May Experience Higher Levels of Loan Loss Due to Recent Growth.NewAlliance’s growth strategy depends on generating an increasing level of loans to produce an acceptable return to our shareholders. We will also need to accomplish this loan growth while maintaining low loan losses in our portfolio. A significant portion of our growth is expected to occur in markets that are relatively new to us, including those areas served by the banks we acquired in 2004, Savings Bank of Manchester and Tolland Bank, and areas of future expansion, including Fairfield County, Connecticut, through our acquisition of Cornerstone Bank and central and western Massachusetts through the acquisition of Westbank. NewAlliance May Experience Higher Levels of Loan Loss Due to Economic Conditions.Recent declines in housing activity including declines in building permits, housing starts and home prices may make it more difficult for our borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their debt. Sales may also slow, which could strain the resources of real estate developers and builders. The Bank may suffer higher loan losses as a result of these factors and the resulting impact on our borrowers. Strong Competition Within NewAlliance’s Market Areas May Limit Growth and Profitability.Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. As we grow, we will be expanding into market areas where we may not be as well known as other institutions that have been operating in those areas for some time. In addition, regional, super regional and national interstate banking institutions have become increasingly active in our market areas. Many of these competitors, in particular the regional, super regional and national institutions, have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot efficiently provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to grow profitably. NewAlliance May Not Pay You Dividends if NewAlliance is Not Able to Receive Dividends From Its Subsidiary, NewAlliance Bank.Cash dividends from NewAlliance Bank and our liquid assets are our principal sources of funds for paying cash dividends on our common stock. Unless we receive dividends from NewAlliance Bank or choose to use our liquid assets, we may not be able to pay dividends. NewAlliance Bank’s ability to pay us dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. NewAlliance is Subject To Extensive Government Regulation and SupervisionNewAlliance, primarily through NewAlliance Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While NewAlliance has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. of this report for further information. 19 NewAlliance May Not Be Able To Attract and Retain Skilled PeopleNewAlliance’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. NewAlliance Continually Encounters Technological ChangeThe financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. NewAlliance’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be CircumventedManagement regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Customer Information May be Obtained and Used FraudulentlyRisk of theft of customer information resulting from security breaches by third parties exposes the Company to reputation risk and potential monetary loss. The Company has exposure to fraudulent use of our customer’s personal information resulting from its general business operations and through customer use of financial instruments, such as debit cards. If a breach in security does occur in the marketplace and the financial data of our customers is compromised, the Company will react as quickly as possible to protect customer accounts and limit potential losses to the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 