Item 1A. Risk FactorsAn investment in our common stock involves certain risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. To understand these risks and to evaluate an investment in our common stock, you should read this entire report, including the following risk factors.If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Company’s common stock could decline significantly.Changes in interest rates and spreads could have a negative impact on earnings and results of operations, which could have a negative impact on the value of NewAlliance stock.NewAlliance’s earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, meaning the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect NewAlliance’s earnings, unrealized gains and financial condition. The Company cannot predict with certainty or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, affect interest income and interest expense. The Company has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates.However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on NewAlliance’s profitability. For example, high interest rates could also affect the amount of loans that we originate, because higher rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages, or cause depositors to shift funds from accounts that have a comparatively lower rate, to accounts with a higher rate or experience customer attrition due to competitor pricing. If the cost of interest-bearing deposits increases at a rate greater than the yields on interest-earning assets increase, net interest income will be negatively affected. Changes in the asset and liability mix may also affect net interest income. Similarly, lower interest rates cause higher yielding assets to prepay and floating or adjustable rate assets to reset to lower rates. If the Bank is not able to reduce its funding costs sufficiently, due to either competitive factors or the maturity schedule of existing liabilities, then the Bank’s net interest margin will decline.Credit market conditions may impact NewAlliance’s investments.Significant credit market anomalies may impact the valuation and liquidity of the Company’s investment securities. The problems of numerous financial institutions have reduced market liquidity, increased normal bid-asked spreads and increased the uncertainty of market participants. Such illiquidity could reduce the market value of the Company’s investments, even those with no apparent credit exposure. The valuation of the Company’s investments requires judgment and as market conditions change investment values may also change. Weakness in the markets for residential or commercial real estate could reduce NewAlliance’s net income and profitability.Softening residential housing markets, increasing delinquency and default rates and constrained secondary credit markets have been affecting the mortgage industry generally. NewAlliance’s financial results may be adversely affected by changes in real estate values. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect NewAlliance’s financial condition or results of operations.NewAlliance may experience higher levels of loan losses due to current economic conditions.The current economic conditions have led to declines in collateral values and stress on the cash flows of borrowers. Therefore, NewAlliance’s allowance for loan losses may need to be increased, or may be deemed insufficient by various regulatory agencies. Such agencies may require the Bank to recognize an increase to the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on NewAlliance’s financial condition and results of operations. See the sections titled “Allowance for Loan Losses” and “Classification of Assets and Loan Review” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, located elsewhere in the Report for further discussion related to the process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses.If the goodwill that the Company has recorded in connection with its acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability.Applicable accounting standards require that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of the company’s net assets, the excess is 17 carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $527.2 million of goodwill on its balance sheet. Companies must evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Write-downs of the amount of any impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on NewAlliance’s financial condition and results of operations.The impact on the Company and the Bank of enacted legislation, in particular the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations cannot be predicted at this time.Recently enacted and potential financial regulatory reforms could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is expected to have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to certain business practices, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business.Strong competition within NewAlliance’s market areas may limit growth and profitability.Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Larger banking institutions have become increasingly active in our market areas. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot efficiently provide. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to grow profitably.NewAlliance is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.NewAlliance, primarily through NewAlliance Bank and certain non-bank subsidiaries, is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect the Company’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While NewAlliance has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. See the section captioned “Regulation and Supervision” in Item 1 of this report for further information.NewAlliance may not pay you dividends if NewAlliance is not able to receive dividends from its subsidiary, NewAlliance Bank.Cash dividends from NewAlliance Bank and our liquid assets are our principal sources of funds for paying cash dividends on our common stock. Unless we receive dividends from NewAlliance Bank or choose to use our liquid assets, we may not be able to pay dividends. NewAlliance Bank’s ability to pay us dividends is subject to its ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. NewAlliance’s stock price can be volatile. NewAlliance’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • recommendations by securities analysts; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or the Company’s competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to NewAlliance; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • changes in government regulations; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 18 General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations could also cause NewAlliance’s stock price to decrease regardless of the Company’s operating results.NewAlliance may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.NewAlliance’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by the Company can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on the business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.NewAlliance continually encounters technological change.The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology can increase efficiency and enable financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. However, some new technologies needed to compete effectively result in incremental operating costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations.NewAlliance’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition.Customer information may be obtained and used fraudulently.Risk of theft of customer information resulting from security breaches by third parties or the lack of controls by third party vendors exposes the Company to reputation risk and potential monetary loss. The Company has exposure to fraudulent use of our customer’s personal information resulting from its general business operations through loss or theft of the information and through customer use of financial instruments, such as debit cards.Changes in accounting standards can materially impact NewAlliance’s financial statements.NewAlliance’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Company restating prior period financial statements.Changes and interpretations of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact NewAlliance’s financial statements.Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than NewAlliance and challenge tax positions that NewAlliance has taken on its tax returns. This may result in the disallowance of deductions or differences in the timing of deductions and result in the payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could materially affect NewAlliance’s performance.Unpredictable catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on NewAlliance Bank.The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, pandemic disease, windstorms, floods, severe winter weather or other catastrophes could adversely affect NewAlliance’s business and, in turn, its financial condition or results of operations. This may result in a significant number of employees that are unavailable to perform critical operating functions at either their regular worksite or the disaster recovery worksite. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on the Company in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to access the financial services offered by NewAlliance Bank. 19 The merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the merger may not be completed.The majority of the conditions to fulfill the completion of the merger have been completed with the exception of regulatory approvals and the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties by both parties and the performance by both parties of their covenants and agreements, and the receipt by both parties of legal opinions from their respective tax counsels.In addition, certain circumstances exist whereby NewAlliance may choose to terminate the merger agreement, including if First Niagara’s share price declines to below $10.22 (subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments) as of the first date when all regulatory approvals for the merger have been received, combined with such decline being at least 20% greater than a corresponding decline in the value of the NASDAQ Bank Index. If this situation occurs, the agreement allows First Niagara the ability to make an adjustment to the exchange ratio, pursuant to a specified formula, to cure any shortfall caused by the decline in share price as previously described. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the merger will be fulfilled or that the merger will be completed.Termination of the merger agreement could negatively impact NewAlliance. If the merger agreement is terminated, there may be various consequences, including: • NewAlliance’s businesses may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger; and • the market price of NewAlliance common stock might decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. If the merger agreement is terminated and NewAlliance’s board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, NewAlliance stockholders cannot be certain that NewAlliance will be able to find a party willing to offer equivalent or more attractive consideration than the consideration First Niagara has agreed to provide in the merger.NewAlliance will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending.Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on NewAlliance. These uncertainties may impair NewAlliance’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed, and could cause customers and others that deal with NewAlliance to seek to change existing business relationships with NewAlliance. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. In addition, the merger agreement restricts NewAlliance from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs without the consent of First Niagara. These restrictions may prevent NewAlliance from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger.The merger agreement limits NewAlliance’s ability to pursue alternatives to the merger.The merger agreement contains “no-shop” provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, limit NewAlliance’s ability to initiate, solicit, encourage or knowingly facilitate any inquiries or competing third-party proposals, or engage in any negotiations, or provide any confidential information, or have any discussions with any person relating to a proposal to acquire all or a significant part of NewAlliance. In addition, NewAlliance has agreed to pay First Niagara a termination fee in the amount of $60 million in the event that First Niagara terminates the merger agreement for certain reasons. These provisions might discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of NewAlliance from considering or proposing that acquisition even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share market price than that proposed in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer’s proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire NewAlliance than it might otherwise have proposed to pay.Settlement agreement related to lawsuits filed against NewAlliance challenging the merger is not approved, and an adverse judgment in such lawsuits or any future similar lawsuits may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe.NewAlliance, the members of the NewAlliance board of directors, certain NewAlliance officers, First Niagara and Merger Sub are named as defendants in a number of purported class action lawsuits brought by various NewAlliance stockholders, both in the Superior Court of New Haven County in Connecticut and in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware, challenging the proposed merger and seeking, among other things, to enjoin the defendants from completing the merger on the agreed-upon terms and rescission of the merger to the extent it has been completed. In December 2010, the parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve these actions and the settlement contemplated by the agreement has been submitted to the Connecticut court for approval. Immediately following final approval by the Connecticut court, the parties to the Delaware actions shall dismiss those actions with prejudice. 20 One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no judgment, decree, injunction or other order (whether temporary or permanent) that prohibits the completion of the merger be in effect. As such, if any plaintiff were successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the NewAlliance or First Niagara defendants from completing the merger on the agreed upon terms, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 