ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Though we have attempted to list comprehensively important cautionary risk factors, we wish to caution investors and others that other factors may in the future prove to be important in affecting our business or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS ON MARCH 2, 2006, A.M. BEST DOWNGRADED OUR FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING TO "B++" (VERY GOOD) AND PLACED OUR RATING UNDER REVIEW WITH NEGATIVE IMPLICATIONS. OUR CURRENT FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING OF "B++" (VERY GOOD) UNDER REVIEW WITH NEGATIVE IMPLICATIONS HAS HAD, AND WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE, A SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS ALONG OUR CURRENT PRODUCT LINES AND ON OUR ABILITY TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY. AS A RESULT OF THE DETERIORATION IN OUR BUSINESS, A.M. BEST MAY FURTHER DOWNGRADE OUR RATINGS. Competition in the types of insurance and reinsurance business that we underwrite and reinsure are based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A.M. Best is generally considered to be a significant rating agency with respect to the evaluation of insurance and reinsurance companies. Its ratings are based on a quantitative evaluation of a company's performance with respect to profitability, leverage and liquidity and a qualitative evaluation of spread of risk, investments, reinsurance programs, reserves and management. In addition, its rating of us takes into consideration the fact that we have recently commenced our operations. Insurance ratings are used by customers, brokers, reinsurers and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. In addition, the rating of a company seeking reinsurance, also known as a ceding company, may be adversely affected by the lack of a rating of its reinsurer. Therefore, the lack of a rating or a poor rating will dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with us and will influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor of ours. A decline in a company's rating indicating a reduced financial strength or other adverse financial developments can cause concern about the viability of the downgraded insurer among its agents, brokers and policyholders, resulting in a movement of business away from the downgraded carrier to other stronger or more highly rated carriers. On March 2, 2006, A.M. Best announced that it had downgraded the financial strength rating assigned to Quanta Bermuda and its subsidiaries and Quanta Europe, to "B++" (very good), under review with negative implications. The A.M. Best "A" (excellent) rated Lloyd's market, including our Lloyd's syndicate, was not subject to the rating downgrade. The recent downgrade of our financial rating has had, and will continue to have, a significant adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business along our current product lines and our ability to execute our business strategy. Our recent downgrade will also have a material negative impact on our ability to retain existing business, expand our portfolios and renew our existing policies and agreements on terms advantageous to us or at all. In addition, some of our insurance and many of our reinsurance contracts contain termination rights triggered by the A.M. Best rating downgrade. Some of these insurance and reinsurance contracts also require us to post additional security as a result of the downgrade. Furthermore, many of our other insurance contracts and certain of our reinsurance contracts provide for cancellation at the option of the policyholder regardless of our financial strength rating. A ratings downgrade by A.M. Best below "B++" would also constitute a default under our credit facility and under certain other agreements and trigger termination provisions or require the posting of additional security in many of our other insurance and reinsurance contracts. The obligations under the credit facility are currently fully secured by investments and cash. If a default occurs under the credit agreement, our lenders may require us to cash collateralize a portion or all of the outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility, which may be accomplished through the substitution or liquidation of collateral. The lenders would also have the right, among other things, to cancel outstanding letters of credit issued under the 45 facility. A.M. Best continues to reevaluate its capital adequacy models and other factors it uses in the evaluation of our business. Additionally, as a result of the deterioration in our business due to the recent ratings downgrade, A.M. Best may further downgrade our ratings. We can make no assurances as to what rating actions A.M. Best may take now or in the future or whether A.M. Best will further downgrade our rating or will remove any qualification of our rating. THE DOWNGRADE OF OUR RATINGS BY A.M. BEST PERMITS CLIENTS TO TERMINATE THEIR CONTRACTS WITH US. MANY OTHER CLIENTS MAY TERMINATE THEIR CONTRACTS WITH US REGARDLESS OF OUR FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING, INCLUDING THE PROGRAM MANAGERS UNDER OUR PROGRAMS. BASED ON OUR DISCUSSIONS WITH THE PROGRAM MANAGER OF OUR RESIDENTIAL BUILDERS' AND CONTRACTORS' PROGRAM, OR HBW PROGRAM, WE EXPECT THAT THE PROGRAM MANAGER WILL DIVERT A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF ITS BUSINESS TO OTHER CARRIERS DURING 2006. Certain of our insurance and many of our reinsurance contracts contain termination rights triggered by the A.M. Best rating downgrade. Furthermore, many of our other insurance contracts and certain of our reinsurance contracts provide for cancellation at the option of the policyholder regardless of our financial strength rating. A cancellation typically results in the termination of the policy and our ongoing obligations and the return of premiums to our client that usually approximates our unearned premium reserve as of the date of the cancellation. Whether a client would exercise such rights would depend, among other things, on the reasons for the downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions, whether we have posted security in respect of our obligations and the pricing and availability of replacement coverage. We cannot predict in advance how many of our clients will actually exercise such rights or the effect such cancellations will have on our financial condition or future prospects. However, depending on the number of contracts involved, such an effect could be materially adverse. As of March 29, 2006, we had received notice of cancellation on approximately 2.3% of our in-force policies, calculated using original contract gross premiums written related to those cancelled policies as a percentage of total gross premiums written during 2005. Based on our discussions with the program manager under our HBW program, we understand that it will divert a substantial portion of the HBW program business to other carriers. As a result, we estimate that the gross and net premiums written under the HBW program during 2006 will be less than 25% of the gross and net premiums written during 2005. Gross unearned premiums relating to these cancellations that we have returned or expect to return to our clients total approximately $5.0 million. We expect that we will receive additional cancellations. The program manager of our HBW program may terminate its agreements with us regardless of our financial strength. HBW gross premiums written during the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled approximately $165.9 million, of which approximately $140.3 million was casualty premium, $15.0 million was warranty premium and $10.6 million was property premium, by class of risk. HBW net premiums written during the year ended December 31, 2005 totaled approximately $108.9 million, of which approximately $84.7 million was casualty premium, $15.0 million was warranty premium and $9.2 million was property premium, by class of risk. Based on our discussions with the program manager, we understand that it will divert a substantial portion of the HBW program business to other carriers. However, we expect to continue to write a small portion of the casualty business through our Lloyd's syndicate. We understand that the new carriers can begin writing casualty business in some states beginning in March 2006, but will need time to file and obtain approval of rate and policy forms with regulatory authorities in other states in which the program manager is writing. Until the new carriers are able to obtain these approvals, we will continue to write casualty business for the program manager. Other than the business that we intend to write through our Lloyd's syndicate, we expect that substantially all of the HBW program business will be diverted to other carriers by December 31, 2006. Consequently, we estimate that the gross and net premiums written under the HBW program during 2006 will be less than 25% of the gross and net premiums written during 2005. While we expect to be able to continue to write business through our Lloyd's syndicate, we expect that the premiums 46 written under our HBW program during 2007 will be significantly less than 2006 as the HBW program manager is able to move that business to new carriers. AS A RESULT OF THE RECENT DOWNGRADE OF OUR FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING BY A.M. BEST, WE ARE CLOSELY ANALYZING OUR BUSINESS LINES, POSITIONING IN THE MARKET AND INTERNAL OPERATIONS AND IDENTIFYING STEPS WE SHOULD TAKE TO PRESERVE SHAREHOLDER VALUE AND IMPROVE OUR POSITION, INCLUDING THE EXPLORATION OF STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVES. THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ANY CHANGES BASED ON SUCH ANALYSIS OR OF ANY STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVES INVOLVE SUBSTANTIAL UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK, AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING MAY BE MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY IMPACTED IF WE DO NOT SUCCEED IN IMPLEMENTING SUCH INITIATIVES. We are exploring strategic alternatives, including the potential sale of some or all of our business, the run off of certain product lines or the business or a combination of alternatives. In addition, in anticipation of the impact of the recent rating action by A.M. Best, we are working diligently to implement key steps designed to preserve shareholder value. We are closely analyzing our business lines, their positioning and internal operations, and identifying steps we should take to improve our position. In this regard, we plan to continue to operate our environmental consulting services through ESC and certain program business lines and to continue our operations through the A.M. Best "A" rated Lloyd's market under our existing Lloyd's syndicate. We are evaluating whether we continue to operate our remaining business lines, which may be through the uses of strategic alliances, fronting agreements and other arrangements. We will also consider running off selected lines or all lines ourselves as an alternative to sale. In connection with the evaluation of our business, we are also reviewing if opportunities exist to expand our business to help diversify our business mix and build our product lines along a middle market strategy that is supportable with a "B++" rating. These initiatives and their implementation involve significant uncertainties and risks that may result in restructuring charges and unforeseen expenses and costs associated with exiting lines of business and complications or delays, including, among others things, the risk of failure. We may also face increased competition in any new markets we may enter. If we do not succeed in implementing the above initiatives on a timely basis, our results of operations, business and financial strength rating may be materially and adversely impacted. While our future operating performance and financial strength rating depends greatly on the success of these efforts, even if we successfully implement any of these measures, there can be no assurance that any of these measures alone may improve our results of operations, preserve shareholder value or maintain or improve our financial strength rating. IF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS DETERMINES THAT NO OTHER STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVE WOULD BE IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS, IT MAY DETERMINE THAT THE BEST COURSE OF ACTION IS TO RUN OFF ANY OR ALL OF OUR PRODUCT LINES. UNFAVORABLE CLAIMS EXPERIENCE RELATED TO THE RUN OFF OF ANY OR ALL OF OUR LINES OF BUSINESS MAY OCCUR AND COULD RESULT IN LOSSES AND POSSIBLY LIQUIDATION. As a result of the recent downgrade of our financial strength rating by A.M. Best, we are exploring strategic alternatives, including the potential sale of some or all of our business, the run off of certain product lines or the business or a combination of alternatives. If our Board of Directors determines that no other strategic alternative would be in the best interests of our shareholders, it may determine that the best course of action is to run off any or all of our product lines. Unfavorable claims experience related to the run off of any or all of our lines of business may occur and could result in losses. Further, we may incur losses attributable to our inability to recover amounts from retrocessionaires or ceding companies either due to disputes with the retrocessionaires or ceding companies or their financial condition. If our reserves for amounts recoverable from retrocessionaires or ceding companies, as well as reserves associated with the underlying reinsurance exposures are insufficient, it could result in losses. Once in run off there are various options available to bring our business to a conclusion including pursuing an arrangement with policyholders in which we or an independent third-party estimate and pay out all existing and contingent liabilities in accordance with the arrangement under a procedure which is approved by a statutory majority of policyholders. Thereafter, we could be 47 liquidated. Under Bermuda law this is referred to as a solvent scheme of arrangement and is, in effect, a global commutation of our business. Alternatively, a program of individual commutations could be pursued with a similar result. Following either a scheme or individual commutation program, we would be placed into liquidation as a solvent entity (a voluntary liquidation approved by shareholders). In the event that we were to become insolvent, we would have to be liquidated under the supervision of the Bermuda Supreme Court during which a court appointed liquidator of our company may or may not pursue a scheme of arrangement to shorten the time otherwise required to wind up our business. In a winding up or liquidation as described above, a liquidator would be appointed and would sell or otherwise dispose of our remaining assets, pay our existing liabilities, including contingent obligations (which would have to be estimated in advance of payment) and distribute net proceeds, if any, to our shareholders in one or more liquidation distributions. In a liquidation, we may not receive any material amounts for the sale or other disposition of our assets. Further, in a liquidation, we will have significant obligations, including the costs incurred by the independent liquidator appointed and the work required to estimate liabilities and realize assets. Additionally, if we do not generate sufficient revenue to support our continued operations, we will be required to reduce our cash balance to support our continued operations and the amount of any liquidation proceeds available for distribution to our shareholders would thereby be reduced. Accordingly, the amount and timing of distributions, if any, to shareholders in a liquidation cannot be determined because such would depend on a variety of factors, including the amount of proceeds received from any asset sales or dispositions, the time and amount required to resolve outstanding obligations and the amount of any reserves for future contingencies. If we were to become insolvent, it is unlikely that there will be distributions payable to our shareholders. Shareholders will rank last in order of priority of distribution in a liquidation. OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION HAVE BEEN AND COULD CONTINUE TO BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE CATASTROPHIC EVENTS THAT OCCURRED IN 2004 AND 2005, AND FUTURE CATASTROPHIC EVENTS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR ABILITY TO WRITE NEW AND RENEWAL BUSINESS AND ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Although we are no longer writing property reinsurance business that is exposed to catastrophes, certain lines of business that we have underwritten, including marine and aviation reinsurance and environmental, have large aggregate exposures, including to natural and man-made disasters such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Additionally, we remain in the program business with property exposure and specie and fine arts products that have exposure to natural and man-made disasters such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Our loss experience generally has and, despite our exit from the property reinsurance and the technical risk property insurance markets, we expect that it will continue to include infrequent events of great severity. Our preliminary estimates of our exposure to ultimate claim costs associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma are based on available information, claims notifications received to date, industry loss estimates, output from industry models, a review of affected contracts and discussions with brokers and clients. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we recognized net losses, including the impact of reinstatement premiums, from Katrina, Rita and Wilma of $87.4 million and in the future we may recognize additional net losses related to these and other catastrophes. If our actual losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma are materially greater than our estimated losses, our financial strength rating, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations in order to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results. Based on our current estimate of losses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we have exhausted our reinsurance and retrocessional protection with 48 respect to Hurricane Katrina and our marine reinsurance with respect to Hurricane Rita. If our Hurricane Katrina losses prove to be greater than currently anticipated, we have no further reinsurance and retrocessional coverage available for that windstorm. If our marine reinsurance losses for Hurricane Rita prove greater than currently anticipated, we will have no further retrocessional coverage available for marine reinsurance losses for that windstorm. Additionally, the occurrence of additional large loss events could reduce the reinsurance coverage that is available to us and could weaken the financial condition of our reinsurers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Losses from these types of catastrophic events could eliminate our shareholders' equity and statutory surplus (which is the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all admitted assets, as determined under statutory accounting principles). Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR EXECUTIVES, MEMBERS OF OUR UNDERWRITING TEAMS AND OTHER KEY EMPLOYEES TO CONTINUE TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS AND IDENTIFY, EVALUATE AND COMPLETE ANY STRATEGIC TRANSACTION. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RETAIN OUR PERSONNEL, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The recent downgrade of our financial strength ratings by A.M. Best and our decision to evaluate strategic alternatives has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and other key employees. Our ability to continue to operate our business and identify, evaluate and complete any strategic transaction depends on our ability to retain our executives and key employees, including our teams of underwriters. These employees may desire to seek new employment as a result of the downgrade of our financial strength ratings by A.M. Best. Our failure to retain members of our management team, key employees, including our underwriting teams, and other personnel could significantly and negatively affect our business and complete any strategic transaction. In order to retain the services of Jonathan J.R. Dodd, our chief financial officer, and a number of other key employees, we have entered into retention agreements with these employees that provide for specified severance payments in the event of their termination without cause or following a change of control. However, we do not have an employment agreement with Robert Lippincott III, our interim chief executive officer and president. Therefore, our employees, other than those employees with whom we have entered into a retention agreement, are not restricted from seeking employment with our competitors or others who may seek their expertise, including newly formed insurance companies who may be seeking employees as they prepare to enter the same market segments in which we compete. AS A RESULT OF RECENT MANAGEMENT CHANGES AND UNCERTAINTIES PERTAINING TO THESE CHANGES, MANAGEMENT'S ATTENTION COULD BE DIVERTED FROM OUR OPERATIONS, EMPLOYEE RETENTION COULD BE JEOPARDIZED AND OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. During 2004 and 2005, we have experienced a number of management changes. Recently, we have appointed an interim chief executive officer and are searching for a permanent chief executive officer as well as a chief claims officer. Our future success depends to a large degree on our ability to identify and retain an experienced and qualified permanent chief executive officer, on our ability to retain key employees, including our underwriting teams, and on the ability of our management team to effectively manage our business, retain employees and integrate with key personnel. While our interim chief executive officer has been a board member since March 2005, he had not been engaged in the daily business operations of our company prior to his appointment. As a result of these management changes and uncertainties pertaining to these changes, management's attention could be diverted from our operations, employee retention could be jeopardized and our business could be adversely affected. We are not able to accurately predict what effect the changes in our management may have on our company. 49 WE HAVE MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO REPORT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ACCURATELY AND ON A TIMELY BASIS. In connection with management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control. For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of these material weaknesses, see "Item 9A. Controls and Procedures--Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting." Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. As a result, we must continue to develop and implement our remediation plan to address the material weaknesses and to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. The recent A.M. Best downgrade of our financial strength ratings, which is currently requiring management to devote significant time and resources to analyzing our business lines, our technology and system needs, our positioning in the market, our internal operations and potential strategic alternatives, could adversely affect our ability to retain, attract and integrate members of our management team and other employees and remediate the material weaknesses we have identified. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal control as our business changes, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and Nasdaq, including a delisting from Nasdaq, securities litigation or events of default under our credit facilities, and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects and the valuation of our securities. WE ARE EXPOSED TO RISKS RELATING TO EVALUATIONS OF CONTROLS REQUIRED BY SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We have identified control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a "material weakness" or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A "material weakness" is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The report by us of a material weakness, including the material weaknesses identified in this annual report, may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and the share price of the common and preferred shares may be adversely affected. WE ARE REQUIRED TO POST ADDITIONAL SECURITY UNDER INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE AGREEMENTS AS A RESULT OF THE RECENT DOWNGRADE OF OUR FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATING, AND WE MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON FAVORABLE TERMS OR AT ALL. Some of our insurance and many of our reinsurance contracts contain termination rights that are triggered by the A.M. Best rating downgrade. Some of these insurance and reinsurance contracts also require us to post additional security. In addition, a downgrade in our rating below "B++" (very good) will cause a default in our credit facility. The obligations under the credit facility are currently fully secured by investments and cash. If a default occurs under the credit agreement, our lenders may require us to cash collateralize a portion or all of the outstanding letters of credit issued under 50 the facility, which may be accomplished through the substitution or liquidation of collateral. The lenders would also have the right, among other things, to cancel outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility. Further, a downgrade in our rating below "B++" (very good) will trigger termination provisions or require the posting of additional security in certain of our other insurance and reinsurance contracts. As a result, we may be required to post additional security either through the issuance of letters of credit or the placement of securities in trust under the terms of those insurance or reinsurance contracts. Furthermore, many of our insurance contracts and certain of our reinsurance contracts provide for cancellation at the option of the policyholder regardless of our financial strength rating. Accordingly, we may also elect to post security under these other contracts in order to maintain that business. We currently have net cash and cash equivalent balances and other investments of approximately $341.9 million that are available to post as security or place in trust. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase the commitment under our existing bank credit facility or obtain additional credit facilities at terms acceptable to us. We cannot draw letters of credit or borrow under the credit agreement if we have incurred a material adverse effect or if a default exists under the agreement. If we fail to maintain or enter into adequate letter of credit facilities on a timely basis, we would be required to place securities in trust or similar arrangements, which would be more difficult and costly to establish and administer. We may need to raise additional funds through financings in order to carry out our business operations. We may also require additional capital because some of the markets in which we place specialty insurance require higher capital levels than the capital we currently have available. The amount and timing of these capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully in accordance with our expectations and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. At this time, we are not able to quantify the amount of additional capital we may require in the future or predict the timing of our future capital needs. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, your interest in our company would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to our current outstanding securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. IF ACTUAL CLAIMS EXCEED OUR LOSS RESERVES, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and reinsure. To the extent actual claims exceed our expectations we will be required to immediately recognize the less favorable experience as we become aware of it. This could cause a material increase in our liabilities and reduction of capital. It is early in our history and the number and size of reported claims may increase, and their size could exceed our expectations. A portion of our business has high attachment points of coverage. Reserving for losses is inherently complicated in that losses in excess of the attachment level of our policies are characterized by high severity and low frequency, and other factors which could vary significantly as claims are settled. This limits the volume of relevant industry claims experience available from which to reliably predict ultimate losses following a loss event. In addition, there always exists a reporting lag between a loss event taking place and the reporting of the loss to us. These incurred but not reported losses are inherently difficult to predict. Because of the variability and uncertainty associated with loss estimation, it is possible that our individual case reserves for each catastrophic event and other case reserves are incorrect, possibly materially. These factors require us to make significant assumptions when establishing loss reserves. Since we have insufficient past loss experience, we supplement this information with industry data. This industry data may not match our risk profile, which introduces a further degree of uncertainty into the process. Accordingly, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. 51 In our reinsurance business line, like other reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is rectified. It is possible that claims in respect of events that have occurred could exceed our loss reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our financial condition in general. THE FAILURE OF ANY OF THE LOSS LIMITATION METHODS WE EMPLOY COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and by prudent underwriting of each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. We cannot be sure that any of these loss limitation methods has been or will be effective. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone's limits. We cannot assure you that various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will be enforceable in the manner we intend. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events, such as the hurricanes in 2004 and 2005, could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders' equity. WE COMPETE WITH A LARGE NUMBER OF COMPANIES IN THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY FOR UNDERWRITING REVENUES. We compete with a large number of other companies in our current selected lines of business. Our competitors offer the lines of insurance that we offer or will offer, target the same markets as we do and utilize similar business strategies. We face competition both from specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and intermediaries, as well as diversified financial services companies. In addition, newly formed and existing insurance industry companies have recently raised capital to meet perceived demand in the current environment and address underwriting capacity issues. Other newly formed and existing insurance companies may also be preparing to enter the same market segments in which we compete or raise new capital. Since we have a limited operating history, many of our competitors have greater name and brand recognition than we have. Many of them also have more (in many cases substantially more) capital and greater marketing and management resources than we have and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we expect to, or will be able to, offer. An increase in capital-raising by companies in our current or future lines of business could result in stronger competitors, new entrants to our markets and an excess of capital in the industry, all of which may make it harder to generate sufficient business at profitable rates. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely or effectively respond to our downgrade to our financial strength ratings by A.M. Best and implement business strategies in a manner that will generate returns on capital superior to those of our competitors. 52 In response to the recent downgrade of our financial strength ratings by A.M. Best, we may enter new markets and will be subject to competitors in these new markets who may sell a product at a price that does not cover its actual costs. If we lower our prices to maintain market share and our premium rates are not adequate, our profitability will decline, thereby resulting in a lower return on equity for our shareholders. However, if we do not lower our prices for similar products, we may not be able to successfully enter those markets. There are no assurances that in the future we will be able to retain or attract customers at prices which we consider to be adequate. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including our perceived financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. Since we have recently commenced operations, we may not be able to compete successfully on many of these bases. If competition limits our ability to write new and renewal business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. A number of new, proposed or potential industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include: o programs in which government-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other "alternative markets" types of coverage; and o changing practices caused by the Internet, which may lead to greater competition in the insurance business. New competition from these developments could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and adversely affect our underwriting results. WE MAY MISEVALUATE THE RISKS WE SEEK TO INSURE IN THE UNDERWRITING AND PRICING OF OUR PRODUCTS. IF WE MISEVALUATE THESE RISKS, OUR ACTUAL INSURED LOSSES MAY BE GREATER THAN OUR LOSS RESERVES, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, REPUTATION, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION. We are a Bermuda company formed to provide specialty lines insurance and reinsurance products on a global basis through our operating subsidiaries. The market for specialty lines insurance and reinsurance products differs significantly from the standard market. In general, in the standard market, insurance rates and forms are highly regulated, products and coverages are largely uniform and have relatively predictable exposures and companies tend to compete for customers on the basis of price and service. In contrast, the specialty market, especially the structured insurance and reinsurance market, provides coverage for risks that do not fit the underwriting criteria of the standard carriers. We have formed teams of experienced underwriting officers and underwriters with specialized knowledge of their respective market segments. Our success will depend on the ability of these underwriters to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. Underwriting for specialty lines and structured insurance and reinsurance products requires us to make assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Further, underwriting for specialty lines presents particular difficulties because there is usually limited information available on the client's loss history for the perils being insured and structured insurance products frequently involve coverages for multiple years and multiple business segments. If we fail to adequately evaluate the risks to be insured, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to an insurer and payment by the insurer of that loss. As we recognize liabilities 53 for unpaid losses, we will continue to establish reserves. These reserves represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Loss reserves are only an estimate of what an insurer anticipates the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments, particularly for new companies, such as ours, that have limited loss development experience. As part of our reserving process, we review historical data as well as actuarial and statistical projections and consider the impact of various factors such as: o trends in claim frequency and severity; o changes in operations; o emerging economic and social trends; o inflation; and o changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. In addition, unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. To the extent our loss reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses or loss adjustment expenses, we will have to add to these loss reserves and incur a charge to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of underwriting and cash flows. In addition, because we, like other reinsurers, do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. OUR UTILIZATION OF PROGRAM MANAGERS AND OTHER THIRD PARTIES TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL RISKS. In our program product line, we rely on program managers, and other agents and brokers participating in our programs, to produce and service a substantial portion of our business in this segment. In these arrangements, we typically grant the program manager the right to bind us to newly issued insurance policies, subject to underwriting guidelines we provide and other contractual restrictions and obligations. Should our managers issue policies that contravene these guidelines, restrictions or obligations, we could nonetheless be deemed liable for these policies. We intend to resist claims that exceed or expand on our underwriting intention, however, it is possible that we would not prevail in such an action, or that our program managers would be unable to substantially indemnify us for their contractual breach. We also rely on our managers, or other third parties we retain, to collect premiums and to pay valid claims. While we aim to mitigate these risks in the contracts we enter into, we still have exposure to their credit and operational risk, without necessarily relieving us of our obligations to potential insureds. We could also be exposed to potential liabilities relating to the claims practices of the third-party administrators we have retained to manage claims activity that we expect to arise in our program operations. Although we have implemented auditing and other oversight protocols for our program, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to alleviate all of these exposures. 54 We are also subject to the risk that our successful program managers will not renew their programs with us. Our contracts are generally for defined terms of as little as one year, and either party can cancel the contract in a relatively short period of time. We cannot assure you that we will retain the programs that produce profitable business or that our insureds will renew with us. Failure to retain or replace these producers would impair our ability to execute our growth strategy, and our financial results could be adversely affected. For further discussion of our HBW program, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors--Risks Related to our Business--The downgrade of our ratings by A.M. Best permits clients to terminate their contracts with us. Many other clients may terminate their contracts with us regardless of our financial strength rating, including the program managers under our programs. Based on our discussions with the program manager of our residential builders' and contractors' program, or HBW program, we expect that the program manager will divert a substantial portion of its business to other carriers during 2006." OUR BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT UPON INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE BROKERS WHO USE RATINGS AS AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN EVALUATING THE FINANCIAL STRENGTH AND QUALITY OF INSURERS. AS A RESULT OF OUR RECENT FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS DOWNGRADE, SEVERAL OF OUR IMPORTANT BROKERS HAVE REMOVED US FROM THEIR APPROVED LISTING. THE FAILURE TO DEVELOP OR MAINTAIN IMPORTANT BROKER RELATIONSHIPS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MARKET OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. We market almost all of our insurance and reinsurance products (other than our program business) through brokers, and we derive a significant portion of our business from a limited number of brokers. Other than our programs, which contributed 28.1% of our gross premiums written during the year ended December 31, 2005, 15.0% of our gross premiums written were generated by one broker. No other broker accounted for more than 10% of gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2005. Financial strength ratings are an important factor used by brokers and other marketing sources in assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. As a result of the downgrade of our financial strength rating by A.M. Best, we have been removed from the approved listing of several of our important brokers, including two of our largest brokers, Aon Corporation and Marsh Inc. The downgrade of our financial rating or the continued qualification of our current rating could continue to cause concern about our viability among brokers and other marketing sources, resulting in a movement of business away from us to other stronger or more highly rated carriers. We are also evaluating whether opportunities exist to expand our business mix and build our product lines along a middle market strategy. We may seek to work with existing and new brokers to reach additional customers we can serve with our underwriting capabilities and our risk management capacity. Our failure to maintain or develop relationships with brokers in response to the March 2006 A.M. Best rating action and from whom we expect to receive our business would have a material adverse effect on us. OUR RELIANCE ON BROKERS SUBJECTS US TO THEIR CREDIT RISK. In accordance with industry practice, we anticipate that we will frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance or reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, will pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment in a significant portion of business that we write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency under local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums from the brokers. Consequently, we will assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world with respect to most of our business. THE IMPACT OF THE INVESTIGATIONS INTO ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES IN THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY CANNOT BE PREDICTED AND MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 55 AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Since October 2004, the industry has seen a number of investigations by the Office of the Attorney General of the State of New York and a number of other government and self-regulatory agencies. A number of these investigations have been settled. We received, and have complied with, requests for information from the Departments of Insurance of North Carolina and Colorado and from Lloyd's of London, or Lloyd's. We are unable to predict the impact, if any, that these investigations and settlements, and any increased regulatory oversight that might result therefrom, may have on our business and financial results. CURRENT LEGAL AND REGULATORY ACTIVITIES RELATING TO CERTAIN FINITE RISK INSURANCE PRODUCTS COULD AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Finite risk reinsurance has become the focus of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and numerous state Attorneys General. Finite risk reinsurance has been defined as a form of reinsurance in which, among other things, the time value of money is considered in the product's design and pricing, in addition to the expected amount of the loss payments. At this time, other than requiring additional disclosures in the statutory financial statements of some of our subsidiaries, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these investigations may have upon the insurance and reinsurance markets and industry business practices or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry and financial reporting. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE COULD FACE UNANTICIPATED LOSSES FROM WAR, TERRORISM AND POLITICAL UNREST, AND THESE OR OTHER UNANTICIPATED LOSSES COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We may have exposure to unexpected losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages we write, we may not be successful in doing so. In addition, we have written, and will continue to write policies explicitly limiting the exposure of our clients to the credit worthiness of their commercial trade partners in some emerging markets or to political uncertainty in those countries which could interfere with the execution of commercial contracts they have entered into. These risks are inherently unpredictable and may increase the frequency or severity of losses. It is difficult to predict the timing of such events or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. To the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. ASSESSMENTS AND OTHER SURCHARGES FOR GUARANTY FUNDS AND SIMILAR ARRANGEMENTS MAY REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. Virtually all states in the U.S. require insurers licensed to do business therein to bear a portion of the unfunded obligations of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These obligations are funded by assessments, which are levied by guaranty associations or similar entities within the state, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in the state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer was engaged. Accordingly, the assessments levied on us by the states in which we are licensed to write insurance may increase if we increase our premiums written in these states. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in certain states, insurance companies are required to participate in that state's mandatory reinsurance fund. The effect of these assessments and arrangements, or changes in them, could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to maintain or grow our business. Additionally, Lloyd's requires members to contribute to the 56 Lloyd's Central Fund. See " Item 1A. Risk Factors--Risks Related to our Business--Continued or increased premium levies by Lloyd's for the Lloyd's central fund and cash calls for trust fund deposits or a significant downgrade of Lloyd's A.M. Best rating would materially and adversely affect us." CONTINUED OR INCREASED PREMIUM LEVIES BY LLOYD'S FOR THE LLOYD'S CENTRAL FUND AND CASH CALLS FOR TRUST FUND DEPOSITS OR A SIGNIFICANT DOWNGRADE OF LLOYD'S A.M. BEST RATING WOULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We participate in Lloyd's through Syndicate 4000, our Lloyd's segment. Syndicate 4000 was created in December 2004 and currently writes traditional specialty insurance products including professional liability (professional indemnity and directors' and officers' coverage), fidelity and crime (financial institutions) and specie and fine art. Whenever a member of Lloyd's is unable to pay its debts to policyholders or to meet certain other obligations, these debts or obligations may be payable by the Lloyd's Central Fund. The Lloyd's Central Fund protects Lloyd's policyholders against the failure of a member of Lloyd's to meet its obligations. The Central Fund is a mechanism that, in effect, "mutualizes" unpaid liabilities among all members, whether individual or corporate. The fund is available to back Lloyd's policies issued after 1992. Lloyd's requires members to contribute to the Central Fund in the form of an annual contribution and by making, through the syndicates on which they participate, annual subordinated loans to Lloyd's whose proceeds are held in the Central Fund. The Council of Lloyd's has discretion to require members to make further Central Fund contributions of up to 3% of their underwriting capacity in any one year. Policies issued before 1993 have been reinsured by Equitas, an independent insurance company authorized by the Financial Services Authority, or FSA. However, if Equitas were to fail or otherwise be unable to meet all of its obligations, Lloyd's may take the view that it is appropriate to apply the Central Fund to discharge those liabilities Equitas failed to meet. In that case, the Council of Lloyd's may resolve to impose a special or additional levy on the existing members, including corporate members such as Quanta 4000 Limited, effectively requiring them to fund the performance of those obligations. Additionally, Lloyd's insurance and reinsurance business is subject to local regulation. Regulators in the United States require Lloyd's to maintain certain minimum deposits in trust funds as protection for policyholders in the United States. These deposits may be used to cover liabilities in the event of a major claim arising in the United States and Lloyd's may require Quanta 4000 Limited to satisfy cash calls to meet claims payment obligations and to maintain minimum trust fund amounts. Any premium levy or cash call would increase the expenses of Syndicate 4000 and Quanta 4000 Limited, its corporate member, without providing compensating revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results. The Lloyd's market is currently rated "A" (excellent) by A.M. Best. In the event that Lloyd's rating is downgraded below "A-" in the future, the downgrade could have a material adverse effect on our ability to underwrite business through Syndicate 4000 and on our financial condition or results of operations. THE AVAILABILITY OF REINSURANCE AND RETROCESSIONAL COVERAGE THAT WE USE TO LIMIT OUR EXPOSURE TO RISKS MAY BE LIMITED, AND COUNTERPARTY CREDIT AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR REINSURANCE ARRANGEMENTS MAY RESULT IN LOSSES WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. To limit our risk of loss and to mitigate the volatility of losses upon our financial results, we use reinsurance and retrocessional coverage, which is reinsurance of a reinsurer's business. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. Currently, there is a high level of demand for these arrangements. The occurrence of additional large loss events could reduce the reinsurance coverage that is available to us and could weaken the financial condition of our reinsurers which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, this protection may be more costly or difficult to obtain as a 57 result of our recent ratings downgrade by A.M. Best. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew adequate protection at cost-effective levels in the future. As a result of market conditions and other factors, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Further, we will be subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires will not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could influence A.M. Best's determination with respect to the rating it assigns to us. WE MUST CONTINUE TO DEVELOP, IMPLEMENT AND INTEGRATE NEW SOFTWARE AND SYSTEMS. Our software systems are not fully developed, implemented or integrated. We continue to rely on many manual processes, which have an increased risk of errors and require more controls than we expect to need once our systems are fully developed, implemented and integrated. A defect or failure in our controls could have a materially adverse effect on our business. While we have acquired new software and systems responsible for accounting, claims management, modeling and other tasks relating to our insurance and reinsurance operations, we must continue to implement and integrate these software and systems with each other and with those that we are developing ourselves. In addition, we must acquire or obtain the right to use additional software and systems and continue to develop those systems as well as any systems that we are creating internally. Our failure to acquire, implement or integrate our systems in a timely and effective manner could impede our ability to achieve our business strategy, including our strategy to seek business from a broader range of clients which would produce a larger number of policies resulting in an even stronger demand on our systems. This failure could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE RELY ON OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, AND THE FAILURE OF THESE SYSTEMS COULD MATERIALLY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations. These systems also enable us to perform actuarial and other modeling functions necessary for underwriting and rate development. We believe our technology and telecommunications systems are critical to our business and our ability to compete successfully. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license upon which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations or materially impact our ability to evaluate and write new business. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we cannot be certain that we will have continued access to these third-party systems and we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. In addition, we cannot make any assurances that our systems will continue to operate as intended. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business and provide customer service or compromise our ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This could result in a material adverse effect on our business. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY BERMUDA EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS. We have hired and may continue to hire a number of non-Bermudians to work for us in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public 58 advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) or a holder of a permanent resident's certificate or holder of a working resident's certificate is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. The Bermuda government recently announced a new policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. While we have been able to obtain work permits that we have needed for our employees to date, we can not assure you that we will not encounter difficulties in the future. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our key employees if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR INVESTED ASSETS IS SUBJECT TO MARKET VOLATILITY. We invest the premiums we receive from customers. Our investment portfolio currently contains highly rated and liquid fixed income securities. Our investment portfolio is invested by several professional investment advisory management firms under the direction of our management team in accordance with our investment guidelines and are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. The volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities. The obligations under the credit facility are currently fully secured by investments and cash. If a default occurs under the credit agreement, our lenders may require us to cash collateralize a portion or all of the outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility, which may be accomplished through the substitution or liquidation of collateral. These events may cause us to incur capital losses. Our investment results and, therefore, our financial condition may also be impacted by changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in interest rates, government monetary policies, general economic conditions and overall market conditions. Further, if we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. Investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, which will affect our ability to conduct business. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INTEREST RATE CHANGES. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under insurance and reinsurance policies, we expect our liquidity needs will be substantial and may arise at any time. Increases in interest rates during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs may result in losses. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. In addition, our investment portfolio includes highly-rated mortgage-backed securities. As with other fixed income investments, the fair market value of these securities fluctuates depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. In periods of increasing interest rates, these investments are exposed to extension risk, which occurs when the holders of underlying mortgages reduce the frequency on which they prepay the outstanding principal before the maturity date and delay any refinancing of the outstanding principal. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. 59 FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES MAY CAUSE US TO EXPERIENCE LOSSES. Our functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Our operating currency generally is also the U.S. dollar. However, we expect the premiums receivable and losses payable in respect of a portion of our business will be denominated in currencies of other countries. We will attempt to manage our foreign currency risk by seeking to match our liabilities under insurance and reinsurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies either with forward purchase contracts or with investments that are denominated in these currencies. To the extent we believe that it may be practical, we hedge our foreign currency exposure with respect to potential losses by maintaining assets denominated in the same currency or entering into forward purchase contracts for specific currencies. We use forward purchase contracts when we are advised of known or probable significant losses that will be paid in non-U.S. currencies in order to manage currency fluctuation exposure. We also use forward purchase contracts to hedge our non-U.S. dollar currency exposure with respect to premiums receivable, which will be generally collected over the relevant contract term to the extent practical and to the extent we do not expect we will need these receipts to fund potential losses in such currencies. We also make foreign currency-denominated investments, generally for the purpose of improving overall portfolio yield. However, we may not be successful in reducing foreign currency exchange risks. As a result, we may from time to time experience losses resulting from fluctuations in values of foreign currencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. OUR RETURNS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY INFLATION. The effects of inflation could cause the severity of claims to rise in the future. Our reserve for losses and loss expenses will include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these costs, we would be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. WE HAVE MADE CERTAIN DECISIONS CONCERNING THE ALLOCATION OF OUR CAPITAL BASE AMONG OUR SUBSIDIARIES. THOSE DECISIONS COULD HAVE A MAJOR IMPACT ON OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVES. We have established operating subsidiaries in Bermuda, Ireland and the United States, a branch in the United Kingdom and a syndicate at Lloyd's of London. We allocate capital among our subsidiaries, branch and syndicate in such a way as we believe will maximize the composite return to shareholders stemming from our overall capital base. These capital allocation decisions require us to make various profitability, risk, operating, regulatory and tax assumptions. If our assumptions are not correct, we may not allocate our capital optimally. In light of the regulatory constraints on moving capital, this could adversely affect our ability to meet our business objectives. ESC'S RISK ASSESSMENT AND RISK CONSULTING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The assessment and analysis of environmental liabilities, and the management, remediation, and engineering of environmental conditions constitute a significant portion of our technical services business. These businesses involve risks, including the possibility that we may be liable to clients, third parties and governmental authorities for clean-up costs, property damage, personal injuries, breach of contract or breach of warranty claims, fines and penalties and regulatory action. As a result, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or fines in the future that could adversely affect our business. OUR LIABILITY TRANSFER PROGRAM MAY EXPOSE US TO LIABILITY. 60 From time to time, we have offered a liability assumption program under which a special-purpose entity assumes specified liabilities associated with environmental conditions for which we provide consulting services. Our liability assumption program requires extensive technical skills and judgments in order to evaluate the significant risks associated with the properties subject to the program. We will be exposed to substantial liabilities related to the environmental conditions associated with assuming liabilities with respect to these properties that could materially adversely affect our financial position. ESC'S SERVICES MAY EXPOSE US TO PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY IN EXCESS OF ITS CURRENT INSURANCE COVERAGE. ESC may have liability to clients for errors or omissions in the services it performs. These liabilities could exceed ESC's insurance coverage and the fees ESC derives from those services. Prior to our acquisition of ESC, ESC maintained general liability insurance and professional liability insurance. The cost of obtaining these insurance policies is rising. We cannot assure you that this insurance will be sufficient to cover any liabilities ESC incurs or that we will be able to maintain ESC's insurance at reasonable rates or at all. If we terminate ESC's policies and do not obtain retroactive coverage, we will be uninsured for claims against ESC made after termination even if these claims are based on events or acts that occurred during the term of the policy. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage for the new services or areas into which we expand ESC's services on favorable terms or at all. WE ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE REGULATION IN BERMUDA, THE UNITED STATES, IRELAND AND LLOYD'S, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ACHIEVE OUR BUSINESS OBJECTIVES. IF WE DO NOT COMPLY WITH THESE REGULATIONS, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PENALTIES, INCLUDING FINES, SUSPENSIONS AND WITHDRAWALS OF LICENSES, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision and to the regulation and supervision of Lloyd's with respect to Syndicate 4000. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than shareholders and other investors. These regulations, generally administered by a department of insurance in each jurisdiction in which we will do business, relate to, among other things: o standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; o licensing of insurers and their agents; o limits on the size and nature of risks assumed; o restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; o restrictions on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; o restrictions on our ability to transfer shares in our insurance company subsidiaries and our Lloyd's subsidiary; o restrictions on transactions between insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates; o restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; o requiring deposits for the benefit of policyholders; o approval of policy forms and premium rates; 61 o requiring certain methods of accounting; o periodic examinations of our operations and finances; o prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and o requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. Insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements and the periodic examinations which as a newly formed group of companies we may be more frequently subject to than more established companies, may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. We intend to base some of our practices on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe are generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance or reinsurance industry or changes in the laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. REGULATION IN THE UNITED STATES. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the United States has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which is an association of the insurance regulatory officials of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws, which may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements. In addition, surplus lines association in various states are asserting themselves more aggressively. Federal legislation is also being discussed that would require all states to adopt uniform standards relating to the regulation of products, licensing, rates and market conduct. We are unable to predict whether any of these or other proposed laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition. The offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has also become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including in the United States and in various states within the United States. In the past, there have been congressional and other proposals in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the United States. If Quanta Bermuda or Quanta U.S. Re were to become subject to any insurance laws and regulations of the United States or any U.S. state, which are generally more restrictive than those applicable to it in Bermuda, at any time in the future, they might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business or on our results of operations. REGULATION IN BERMUDA. Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re are registered Bermuda 62 insurance companies and subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. The applicable Bermuda statutes and regulations generally are designed to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re are not registered or licensed as insurance companies in any jurisdiction outside Bermuda, conduct business through offices in Bermuda and do not maintain an office in, and their personnel do not conduct any insurance activities in, the United States or elsewhere. Inquiries or challenges to the insurance activities of Quanta Bermuda or Quanta U.S. Re. may be raised in the future. REGULATION IN IRELAND. Quanta Europe is a non-life insurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland subject to the regulation and supervision of the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority, or IFSRA, under the Irish Insurance Acts, 1909 to 2000 and the regulations relating to insurance business and directions made under those regulations, or together, the Insurance Acts and Regulations. In addition, Quanta Europe is subject to certain additional supervisory requirements of IFSRA for authorized non-life insurers that fall outside the strict legislative framework, such as guidelines issued by IFSRA in 2001 requiring actuarial certification of certain reserves. Among other things, without consent of IFSRA, Quanta Europe is not permitted to reduce the level of its initial capital, or make any dividend payments or loans. Quanta Europe is required to maintain a minimum solvency margin and reserves against underwriting liabilities. Assets constituting these reserves must comply with asset diversification, localization and currency matching rules. If Quanta Europe writes credit insurance, it is required to maintain a further equalization reserve. Additionally, Quanta Europe is required to adhere to IFSRA's policy restricting the reinsurance business written by a direct insurer. Under this policy, a direct insurer is prohibited from engaging in reinsurance except to an extent that is not significant (to maximum 10% to 20% of overall business) and subject to certain conditions. In practice IFSRA generally expects a direct insurer to write reinsurance in very limited circumstances. An insurance company supervised by IFSRA may have its authorization revoked or suspended by IFSRA under various circumstances, including, among others, if IFSRA determines that it has not used its authorization for the last 12 months, it has expressly renounced its authorization, has ceased to carry on business covered by the authorization for more than six months, no longer fulfills the conditions required for granting authorization or fails seriously in its obligations under the Insurance Acts and Regulations. The appointment of the directors and senior managers of Quanta Europe is subject to prior approval from IFSRA. Changes to any of the Insurance Acts and Regulations, or to the interpretation of these or to the additional supervisory requirements of IFSRA referred to above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. REGULATION IN LLOYD'S. The business of Syndicate 4000 is subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority, as established by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, through its regulation of the managing agent of the syndicate and its regulation of the Society of Lloyd's itself. Under this Act, the Financial Services Authority has broad powers of intervention. The Financial Services Authority requires that the managing agent of the syndicate carry out a capital assessment of the syndicate in order to determine whether any additional capital should be held by the syndicate on account of any particular risks arising from its business or operational infrastructure. This assessment (known as an "individual capital assessment") is reviewed and may be challenged by Lloyd's. Syndicate 4000's individual capital assessment for the year ending December 31, 2006 has been reviewed and approved by Lloyd's. However, as a result of our recent ratings downgrade by A.M. Best, Lloyd's has informed us that in order for Syndicate 4000 to continue underwriting in the Lloyd's of London market during the 2007 underwriting year, Syndicate 4000 must diversify its capital base with the addition of one or more third-party capital sources. This capital, including the third-party source, must be in place by November 30, 2006. Based on the amount of capital provided by any third-party source, we believe we will be able to remove some of the funds we have deposited to support our underwriting capacity of our Lloyd's Syndicate. However, we can make no assurances that we will be successful in obtaining any third-party source of capital to support our Lloyd's syndicate. If we fail to meet Lloyd's capital diversification requirements by November 30, 2006, we will no longer be able to participate in the Lloyd's of London market in future underwriting years, which will have a material adverse effect on our business. 63 The business of Syndicate 4000 is also subject to regulation by the Council of Lloyd's, and its sole member, our subsidiary Quanta 4000 Limited, is subject to the rules imposed under regulations and byelaws made, and amended from time to time, by the Council of Lloyd's under powers conferred on it by Lloyd's Act 1982. Under these rules, Lloyd's prescribes, in respect of its managing agents and corporate members, certain minimum standards relating to their management and control, solvency and various other requirements. The Financial Services Authority monitors the Lloyd's market to ensure that managing agents' compliance with the systems and controls prescribed by Lloyd's enables those managing agents to comply with its relevant requirements. If it appears to the Financial Services Authority that either Lloyd's is not fulfilling its regulatory responsibilities, or that managing agents are not complying with the applicable regulatory sections or market requirements prescribed by Lloyd's, the Financial Services Authority may exercise broad powers of intervention. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO U.S. TAX THAT MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND YOUR INVESTMENT. Quanta Holdings and Quanta Bermuda are Bermuda companies and Quanta Europe is an Irish company. We believe we are managing our business so that each of these companies is not treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States and, as a result, will not be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to what activities constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not be able to successfully contend that any of Quanta Holdings or its foreign subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If Quanta Holdings or any of its foreign subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a business in the United States, we could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of our earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case our results of operations and your investment could be materially adversely affected. See "Item 1. Business--Material Tax Considerations--Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations--U.S. Taxation of Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda, Quanta Europe, Quanta U.S. Holdings, Quanta Specialty Lines, Quanta U.S. Re and Quanta Indemnity." Quanta Holdings' U.S. subsidiaries might be subject to additional U.S. tax on a portion of their income if a subsidiary is considered a personal holding company, or PHC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status will depend on whether more than 50% of our shares by value could be deemed to be owned (under some constructive ownership rules) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of the income of any of its U.S. subsidiaries, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, consists of "personal holding company income," which is, in general, certain forms of passive and investment income. We believe based upon information made available to us regarding our shareholder base that none of Quanta Holdings' subsidiaries should be considered a PHC. Additionally, we believe we are managing our business to minimize the possibility that we will meet the 60% income threshold. However, because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate share ownership (i.e., as determined by the constructive ownership rules for PHCs), we cannot assure you that none of Quanta Holdings' subsidiaries will be considered PHC or that the amount of U.S. tax that would be imposed if it were not the case would be immaterial. See "Item 1. Business--Material Tax Considerations--Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations--U.S. Taxation of Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda, Quanta Europe, Quanta U.S. Holdings, Quanta Specialty Lines, Quanta U.S. Re and Quanta Indemnity--Personal Holding Companies." WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL IRISH TAX OR U.K. TAX. If any of our non-Irish companies were considered to be resident in Ireland, or to be doing business in Ireland, or, in the case of our U.S. subsidiaries which qualify for the benefits of an existing tax treaty with Ireland, to be doing business through a permanent establishment in Ireland, those companies would be subject to Irish tax. If we or any of our subsidiaries were considered to be resident in the United Kingdom, or to be carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom through a 64 permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, those companies would be subject to United Kingdom tax. If any of our U.S. subsidiaries were subject to Irish tax or U.K. tax, that tax would generally be creditable against their U.S. tax liability, subject to limitations. If we or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries were subject to Irish tax or U.K. tax, that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and on the value of our shares. THE IMPACT OF BERMUDA'S LETTER OF COMMITMENT TO THE ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT TO ELIMINATE HARMFUL TAX PRACTICES IS UNCERTAIN AND COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR TAX STATUS IN BERMUDA. A number of multinational organizations, including the European Union, the Financial Action Task Force, the Financial Stability Forum, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is commonly referred to as the OECD, have published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. Tax haven jurisdictions that do not cooperate with the OECD could face sanctions imposed by OECD member countries. In the OECD's report dated June 26, 2000, Bermuda was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices by the end of 2005 and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether these changes will subject us to additional taxes. In addition, we cannot assure you that the OECD will not adopt measures that will have a negative impact on Bermuda companies. WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO TAXES IN BERMUDA AFTER MARCH 28, 2016, WHICH MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND YOUR INVESTMENT. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re, an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Quanta Holdings, Quanta Bermuda and Quanta U.S. Re or any of their operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. See "Item 1. Business--Material Tax Considerations--Certain Bermuda Tax Considerations." Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance's assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. RISKS RELATED TO THE INDUSTRY THE INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE BUSINESS IS HISTORICALLY CYCLICAL, AND WE EXPECT TO EXPERIENCE PERIODS WITH EXCESS UNDERWRITING CAPACITY AND UNFAVORABLE PREMIUM RATES. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic and other loss events, levels of capacity, general economic and social conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The supply of insurance and reinsurance may increase, either due to capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to 65 these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly. We expect that our returns will be impacted by the cyclical nature of the insurance and reinsurance industry. The existence of negative market conditions may affect our ability to write insurance and reinsurance at rates that we consider appropriate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot write our specialty lines of insurance and reinsurance at appropriate rates, our ability to transact our business would be significantly and adversely affected. THE EFFECTS OF EMERGING CLAIM AND COVERAGE ISSUES ON OUR BUSINESS ARE UNCERTAIN. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Recent examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include: o larger settlements and jury awards against professionals and corporate directors and officers covered by professional liability and directors' and officers' liability insurance; and o a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of business in our industry. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. RECENT FEDERAL LEGISLATION MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATION AND OUR BUSINESS. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, was enacted by the U.S. Congress and became effective in November 2002 in response to the tightening of supply in some insurance markets resulting from, among other things, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. TRIA generally requires U.S. property and casualty insurers, including Quanta Indemnity and Quanta Specialty Lines, to offer terrorism coverage for certified acts of terrorism to their policyholders at the same limits and terms as for other coverages. Exclusions or sub-limited coverage may be established, but solely at the policyholder's discretion. The U.S. Treasury has the power to extend the application of TRIA to our non-U.S. insurance operating subsidiaries as well. TRIA created a temporary federal reinsurance program to reduce U.S. insurers' risk of financial loss from certified acts of terrorism. TRIA's requirement to offer coverage, as well as the federal reinsurance program, has been extended and is now scheduled to expire on December 31, 2007. While federal reinsurance is available, coverage under the federal reinsurance program is limited. Accordingly, the requirements under TRIA may negatively affect our results of operation and our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES OUR SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES HAVE RIGHTS, PREFERENCES AND PRIVILEGES SENIOR TO THOSE OF HOLDERS OF OUR COMMON SHARES. 66 Our series A preferred shares rank senior to our common shares with respect to the payment of dividends and distributions upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. So long as any series A preferred shares remain outstanding, if full dividends for all outstanding series A preferred shares have not been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has not been set aside, then no dividend may be paid or declared on our common shares and our common shares may not be purchased or redeemed. Additionally, our series A preferred shares require us to redeem our series A preferred shares after the occurrence of certain change of control events, which may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control of us. The holders of our series A preferred shares will also have voting rights to elect two directors to our board of directors if dividends on our series A preferred shares have not been declared by the board of directors and paid for an aggregate of six full dividend periods (whether or not consecutive). OUR SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES ARE EQUITY AND ARE SUBORDINATE TO OUR EXISTING AND FUTURE INDEBTEDNESS. Our series A preferred shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. Consequently, our series A preferred shares rank junior to all of our indebtedness, such as our junior subordinated debentures and our secured letter of credit and revolving credit facility, and other non-equity claims on us with respect to assets available to satisfy our claims, including in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. Our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payments of dividends on our series A preferred shares. We may issue additional indebtedness from time to time. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of our series A preferred shares (1) dividends are payable only if declared by our board of directors and (2) as a corporation, we are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends and redemption price out of lawfully available funds. DIVIDENDS ON OUR SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES ARE NON-CUMULATIVE. Dividends on our series A preferred shares are non-cumulative. Consequently, if our board of directors (or a committee of the board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period, holders of our series A preferred shares would not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accrue and will not be payable. We will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if our board of directors (or a committee of the board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent dividend period with respect to our series A preferred shares. OUR HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE AND CERTAIN REGULATORY AND OTHER CONSTRAINTS, INCLUDING OUR CREDIT FACILITY, AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO PAY DIVIDENDS ON OUR SHARES, MAKE PAYMENTS ON OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND OTHER LIABILITIES AND OUR ABILITY TO REDEEM OUR SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES. Quanta Holdings is a holding company. As a result, we do not, and will not, have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiaries will be our sole source of funds to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders, redeem our series A preferred shares and to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses. Because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends on our shares and to redeem our series A preferred shares for cash may be limited by restrictions on our ability to obtain funds through dividends from our subsidiaries. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to make these payments is limited by the applicable laws and regulations of the domiciles in which the subsidiaries operate. These laws and regulations subject our subsidiaries to significant restrictions and require, among other things, that some of our subsidiaries maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends that these subsidiaries can pay to us. The inability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our operations and on our ability to pay dividends, redeem our series A 67 preferred shares and make payments on our indebtedness. We are subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares, redeem our series A preferred shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended, or the Companies Act, even though we are solvent and able to pay our liabilities as they become due, we may not declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution if we have reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or will after the payment be, unable to pay our liabilities as they become due or if the realizable value of our assets will thereby be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and our issued share capital and share premium accounts. We have obtained a consent under our current letter of credit and revolving credit facility for the payment of dividends on our series A preferred shares. However, the facility prohibits us from paying dividends on our series A preferred shares so long as there is a default under that agreement. Future credit agreements or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may also contain provisions prohibiting or limiting the payment of dividends on our shares under certain circumstances. WITHOUT THE APPROVAL BY OUR COMMON SHAREHOLDERS OF A PROPOSAL TO REDUCE OUR SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT AND REALLOCATE CERTAIN CAPITAL TO OUR CONTRIBUTED SURPLUS ACCOUNT, WE EXPECT TO BE RESTRICTED BY LAW FROM DECLARING OR PAYING DIVIDENDS TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS, INCLUDING OUR HOLDERS OF SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES, IN THE FUTURE. As a result of our losses, for Bermuda company law purposes, we expect that the realizable value of our assets will no longer exceed the aggregate of our liabilities and our issued share capital and share premium accounts. So long as this deficiency continues, we are prohibited by Bermuda company law from paying dividends or making distributions to our shareholders, including our holders of series A preferred shares. For further discussion of our share capital and share premium accounts, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Financial Condition and Liquidity--Liquidity--Dividends and Redemptions." In order for Quanta Holdings to have the flexibility to pay dividends to shareholders, we are evaluating a proposal to reduce the share premium account and allocate sums to our contributed surplus account. This reduction of our share premium account and reallocation to the contributed surplus account would require the approval of our common shareholders to be effective. If our common shareholders do not approve any such proposal, we may be restricted by Bermuda company law from declaring or paying dividends to our holders of series A preferred shares and other shareholders. We cannot make any assurances that we will have the ability to declare and pay dividends under Bermuda law to our shareholders in the future. In addition, even if we submit, and our common shareholders approve, any proposal and we are permitted by law to declare and pay dividends, we cannot assure you that future losses or other events could not impair our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. UNDER CERTAIN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES, WE ARE OBLIGATED TO REDEEM OR PURCHASE OUR SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES. PRIOR TO DECEMBER 15, 2010, WE MAY REDEEM SOME OR ALL OF OUR SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES ONLY UNDER CERTAIN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES. ON AND AFTER DECEMBER 15, 2010, AT OUR OPTION, WE MAY REDEEM SOME OR ALL OF OUR SERIES A PREFERRED SHARES. Our series A preferred shares have no maturity date or redemption date. We may be required to offer to redeem the series A preferred shares at a price of $25.25 per share, plus declared but unpaid dividends and additional amounts, if any, to the date of redemption upon the occurrence of specified change of control events. Holders of our series A preferred shares may not otherwise require us to redeem or repurchase our series A preferred shares under any circumstances. We may redeem the series A preferred shares before December 15, 2010 for certain tax events. We may also, at our option, on and after December 15, 2010, redeem some or all of our series A preferred shares at any time at the redemption price set forth in the Certificate of Designation for our series A preferred shares. We do not need the consent of the series A preferred shareholders in order to redeem our 68 series A preferred shares and may do so at any time after December 15, 2010 that is advantageous to us. If we redeem our series A preferred shares, holders of the series A preferred shares may not be able to reinvest the proceeds in alternative investments that will compensate them in a manner commensurate with our series A preferred shares. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND REVENUES MAY FLUCTUATE AS A RESULT OF MANY FACTORS, INCLUDING CYCLICAL CHANGES IN THE INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE INDUSTRY, WHICH MAY CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR SHARES TO DECLINE. The results of operations of companies in the insurance and reinsurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: o the differences between actual and expected losses that we cannot reasonably anticipate using historical loss data and other identifiable factors at the time we price our products; o volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks, or court grants of large awards for particular damages; o cyclicality relating to the demand and supply of insurance and reinsurance products; o changes in the level of reinsurance capacity; o changes in the amount of loss reserves resulting from new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers' liabilities; and o fluctuations in equity markets, interest rates, credit risk and foreign currency exposure, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. In addition, the demand for the types of insurance we will offer can vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases, causing our revenues to fluctuate. These fluctuations in results of operations and revenues may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS MAY REDUCE OR INCREASE THE VOTING POWER ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SHARES. Our bye-laws generally provide that common shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. Our Certificate of Designation generally provides that the holders of our series A preferred shares do not have any voting rights unless dividends on the series A preferred shares have not been declared by the board of directors and paid for an aggregate of six full dividend periods (whether or not consecutive). Pursuant to a mechanism specified in our bye-laws and Certificate of Designation, the voting rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not deemed to hold more than 9.5% of the voting power conferred by our shares. In addition, our board of directors retains certain discretion to make adjustments to the aggregate number of votes attaching to the shares of any shareholder that they consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to ensure that no person will hold more than 9.5% of the voting power represented by our then outstanding shares. Under these provisions, some shareholders may have the right to exercise their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing 69 the voting power of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. As a result of any reduction in the votes of other shareholders, your voting power might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares, which may result in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder's voting rights are to be reduced pursuant to the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to our request, we may, in our sole discretion, determine that the votes of that shareholder shall be disregarded until the shareholder provides the requested information. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON SHARES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THEIR PRICE. Future sales of common shares by our shareholders or us, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Currently, 69,946,861 common shares are outstanding. As of March 30, 2006, we have also granted options, performance shares, restricted shares, and founder warrants for up to 5,740,978 of our common shares. All of our outstanding common shares, other than 291,262 common shares sold to one of our directors, Nigel W. Morris, in a private placement and the common shares subject to awards granted under our 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan, have been registered pursuant to registration statements. Additionally, 2,542,813 common shares underlying founder warrants issued in connection with our formation and capitalization have been registered for resale pursuant to a registration statement and when and if they are issued, will be freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, assuming they are not held by our affiliates. The 291,262 shares sold to Mr. Morris have not been registered pursuant to a registration statement, but we have entered into a registration rights agreement with Mr. Morris covering these shares. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE US. Provisions of our organizational documents and in our Certificate of Designation for our series A preferred shares may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, tender offer or other change of control that holders of our shares may consider favorable. These provisions impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect various corporate actions. These provisions could: o have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us; o discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the price; o adversely affect the price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our securities; or o impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management. U.S. PERSONS WHO OWN OUR SHARES MAY HAVE MORE DIFFICULTY IN PROTECTING THEIR INTERESTS THAN U.S. PERSONS WHO ARE SHAREHOLDERS OF A U.S. CORPORATION. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders including: o Interested director transactions. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, any transaction entered into by us in which a director has an interest is not voidable by us nor can such director be accountable to us for any benefit realized under that transaction provided the 70 nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing to the directors. In addition, our bye-laws allow a director to be taken into account in determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he has an interest following a declaration of the interest pursuant to the Companies Act unless the chairman of the meeting determines otherwise. U.S. companies are generally required to obtain the approval of a majority of disinterested directors or the approval of shareholders before entering into any transaction or arrangement in which any of their directors have an interest, unless the transaction or arrangement is fair to the company at the time it is authorized by the company's board or shareholders. o Certain transactions with significant shareholders. As a Bermuda company, we may enter into certain business transactions with our significant shareholders, including asset sales, in which a significant shareholder receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders. Such transactions may be entered into with prior approval from our board of directors but without obtaining prior approval from our shareholders. U.S. companies in general may not enter into business combinations with interested shareholders, namely certain large shareholders and affiliates, unless the business combination had been approved by the board in advance or by a supermajority of shareholders or the business combination meets specified conditions. o Shareholders' suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. In general, under Bermuda law, derivative actions are permitted only when the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. In addition, Bermuda courts would consider permitting a derivative action for acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or, for instance, acts that require the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than those who actually approved them. o Indemnification of directors and officers. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, we may indemnify our directors, officers or any other person appointed to a committee of the board of directors (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) to the full extent permitted by law against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense incurred or suffered by such person by reason of any act done, concurred in or omitted in the conduct of our business or in the discharge of his/her duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty (as determined in a final judgment or decree not subject to appeal) on the part of such director, officer or other person. Under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers or directors. In general, U.S. companies may limit the personal liability of their directors as long as they acted in good faith and without knowing violation of law. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who own shares of a U.S. corporation. WE ARE A BERMUDA COMPANY AND IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR YOU TO ENFORCE JUDGMENTS AGAINST US OR OUR DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, some of our officers reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are, and will continue to be, located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United 71 States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We have been advised that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or these persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction's public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. HOLDERS OF OUR SHARES WHO OWN 10% OR MORE OF OUR VOTING POWER MAY BE SUBJECT TO TAXATION UNDER THE "CONTROLLED FOREIGN CORPORATION," OR CFC, RULES. Each "10% U.S. Shareholder" of a foreign corporation that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and that owns shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC's taxable year, must include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC's "subpart F income," even if the subpart income is not distributed. A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if "10% U.S. Shareholders" own more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of the foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of the corporation. A 10% U.S. Shareholder is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, that owns at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the foreign corporation. A CFC also includes a foreign corporation in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders, on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts generating subpart F income exceeds specified limits. For purposes of determining whether a corporation is a CFC, and therefore whether the more-than-50% (or more-than-25%, in the case of insurance income) and 10% ownership tests have been satisfied, shares owned includes shares owned directly or indirectly through foreign entities or shares considered owned under constructive ownership rules. The attribution rules are complicated and depend on the particular facts relating to each investor. Furthermore, whenever dividends on our series A preferred shares and the parity stock then outstanding have not been declared by the board of directors and paid for an aggregate of at least six dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, holders would be entitled to certain voting rights. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, could assert that accrual of these voting rights on default of the series A preferred shares cause certain U.S. holders of series A preferred shares to be 10% U.S. Shareholders and us, or any of our foreign subsidiaries, to be a CFC. Due to the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership and certain bye-law provisions that impose limitations on the concentration of voting power of its shares and that authorize the board to purchase its shares under specified circumstances, we do not believe that we have any 10% U.S. shareholders. It is possible, however that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. 72 IF WE DETERMINE THAT YOUR OWNERSHIP OF OUR SHARES MAY RESULT IN ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES, WE MAY REQUIRE YOU TO SELL YOUR SHARES TO US. Our bye-laws provide that we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell its shares at a purchase price equal to their fair market value to us, to other shareholders or to third parties if our board of directors in its absolute discretion determines that the share ownership of that shareholder may result in adverse tax consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any other shareholder. To the extent possible under the circumstances, the board of directors will use its best efforts to exercise this option equally among similarly situated shareholders. Our right to require a shareholder to sell its shares to us will be limited to the purchase of a number of shares that we determine is necessary to avoid or cure those adverse tax consequences. U.S. PERSONS WHO HOLD SHARES COULD BE SUBJECT TO ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES IF WE ARE CONSIDERED A "PASSIVE FOREIGN INVESTMENT COMPANY" FOR U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. We do not intend to conduct our activities in a manner that would cause us to become a passive foreign investment company. However, it is possible that we could be deemed a passive foreign investment company by the IRS for 2003, 2004, 2005 or any future year. If we were considered a passive foreign investment company it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply or subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be issued in the future. We cannot predict what impact, if any, this guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. We have not sought and do not intend to seek an opinion of legal counsel as to whether or not we were a passive foreign investment company for the period ended December 31, 2003 or for the years ended December 31, 2004 or 2005. U.S. PERSONS WHO HOLD SHARES MAY BE SUBJECT TO U.S. INCOME TAXATION ON THEIR PRO RATA SHARE OF OUR "RELATED PARTY INSURANCE INCOME." If: o Quanta Europe's or Quanta Bermuda's related party insurance income equals or exceeds 20% of that company's gross insurance income in any taxable year, o direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to such insureds) own (or are treated as owning directly or indirectly) 20% or more of the voting power or value of the shares of Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda, and o U.S. persons are considered to own in the aggregate 25% or more of the stock of either corporation by vote or value, then a U.S. person who owns shares of Quanta Holdings directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes the shareholder's pro rata share of Quanta Europe's or Quanta Bermuda's related party insurance income for the U.S. person's taxable year that includes the end of the corporation's taxable year determined as if such related party insurance income were distributed proportionately to such U.S. shareholders at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition any related party insurance income that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of related party insurance income earned by Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. shareholder of Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda or any person related to such shareholder) will depend on a number of 73 factors, including the geographic distribution of Quanta Europe's or Quanta Bermuda's business and the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Quanta Europe or Quanta Bermuda. Although we do not expect our related party insurance income to exceed 20% of our gross insurance income in the foreseeable future, some of the factors which determine the extent of related party insurance income in any period may be beyond Quanta Europe's or Quanta Bermuda's control. Consequently, Quanta Europe's or Quanta Bermuda's related party insurance income could equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons could equal or exceed the 20% threshold described above. The related party insurance income rules provide that if a shareholder that is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related party insurance income (even if the amount of related party insurance income is less than 20% of the corporation's gross insurance income or the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold) and in which U.S. persons own 25% or more of the shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as ordinary income to the extent of the shareholder's share of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the shareholder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to related party insurance income). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the shareholder. These rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Quanta Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations appear to apply only in the case of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business. However, the IRS might interpret the proposed regulations in a different manner and the applicable proposed regulations may be promulgated in final form in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our shares. CHANGES IN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX LAW COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT AN INVESTMENT IN OUR SHARES. The U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a passive foreign investment company or whether U.S. persons would be required to include in their gross income the subpart F income or the related party insurance income of a CFC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding related party insurance income are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be issued in the future. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such regulations or guidance will have a retroactive effect. 74 INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements included in this annual report, including those using words such as "believes," "expects," "intends," "estimates," "projects," "predicts," "assumes," "anticipates," "plans," and "seeks" and comparable terms, are forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact and reflect our views and assumptions as of the date of this annual report regarding future events and operating performance. Because of our recent ratings downgrade by A.M. Best and our limited operating history, many statements relating to us and our business, including statements relating to our position, operations and business strategies, are forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. We believe that these factors include but are not limited to the following: o A.M. Best has recently downgraded our financial strength rating to "B++" (very good) and placed our rating under review with negative implications. We are experiencing a significant loss of business and business opportunities from the recent downgrade and qualification of our financial strength rating. Our current financial strength rating of "B++" (very good), under review with negative implications has had, and will continue to have, a significant adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business in our current product lines. In addition, certain of our insurance and many of our reinsurance contracts contain termination rights, which have been triggered by the A.M. Best rating downgrade. Some of the insurance and reinsurance contracts also require us to post additional security as a result of the downgrade. Furthermore, many of our other insurance contracts and certain of our reinsurance contracts provide for cancellation at the option of the policyholder regardless of our financial strength rating. A downgrade in our rating below "B++" (very good) will cause a default in our credit facility and trigger termination provisions or require the posting of additional security in many of our other insurance and reinsurance contracts. The obligations under the credit facility are currently fully secured by investments and cash. If a default occurs under the credit agreement, our lenders may require us to cash collateralize a portion or all of the outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility, which may be accomplished through the substitution or liquidation of collateral. The lenders would also have the right, among other things, to cancel outstanding letters of credit issued under the facility; o we believe that A.M. Best continues to reevaluate its capital adequacy models and other factors it uses in its evaluation of our business. As a result of the deterioration in our business due to the recent downgrade of our financial strength ratings, A.M. Best may further downgrade our ratings. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to what additional rating actions A.M. Best may take in the future or whether A.M. Best will further downgrade our ratings or will remove any qualification of our ratings; o based on our discussions with the program manager of our residential builders' and contractors' program, or HBW program, we expect that the program manager will divert a substantial portion of its business to other carriers during 2006; o as a result of the recent downgrade of our financial strength ratings by A.M. Best, we are closely analyzing our business lines, positioning in the market and internal operations and identifying steps we should take to preserve shareholder value and improve our position, including the exploration of strategic alternatives. The implementation of any changes based on such analysis or of any strategic alternatives involves substantial uncertainties and risks that may result in restructuring charges and unforeseen expenses and costs. There can be no assurance that any of these initiatives will not negatively impact our 75 results of operations or will be successful in improving our position and preserving shareholder value; o our business is dependent upon insurance and reinsurance brokers who use ratings as an important factor in evaluating the financial strength and quality of insurers. As a result of our recent financial strength ratings downgrade, several of our important brokers have removed us from their approved listing; o our ability to continue to operate our business and identify, evaluate and complete any strategic transaction is dependent on our ability to retain our executives and key employees, including our teams of underwriters. Our inability to retain, attract and integrate members of our management team, key employees, including our underwriting teams, and other personnel could significantly and negatively affect our business; o our ability to pay dividends may be restricted; o certain lines of business that we have underwritten, including marine, technical risk and aviation reinsurance and environmental insurance, have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability and our results may continue to be volatile as a result; o our preliminary estimates of our exposure to ultimate claim costs associated with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma are based on available information, claims notifications received to date, industry loss estimates, output from industry models, a review of affected contracts and discussions with brokers and clients. The actual amount of losses from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma may vary significantly from our estimates based on such data, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations; o the ineffectiveness or obsolescence of our planned business strategy due to the recent downgrade of our financial strength ratings or changes in current or future market conditions; o if actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be significantly adversely affected; o the failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations; o the failure to successfully broaden the number of brokers we do business with in order to expand our customer base in response to our ratings downgrade; o actual results, changes in market conditions, the occurrence of catastrophic losses and other factors outside our control that may require us to alter our anticipated methods of conducting our business, such as the nature, amount and types of risk we assume and the terms and limits of the products we write or intend to write; o based on our current estimate of losses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, we have exhausted our reinsurance and retrocessional protection with respect to Hurricane Katrina and our marine reinsurance with respect to Hurricane Rita. If our Hurricane Katrina losses prove to be greater than currently anticipated, we have no further reinsurance and retrocessional coverage available for that windstorm. If our marine reinsurance losses for Hurricane Rita prove greater than currently anticipated, we will have no further retrocessional coverage available for marine reinsurance losses for that windstorm. In 76 addition, if there are further catastrophic events relating to our underwriting exposures, our retrocessional coverage for these events may be limited or we may have no coverage at all; o the failure to remedy any weakness found in our evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the material weaknesses identified in this annual report, may result in our financial statements being materially inaccurate, may restrict our access to the capital markets and may cause the share price of our common and preferred shares to be adversely affected; o changes in the availability, cost or quality of reinsurance; o our limited operating history; o our insurance and reinsurance business is not widely diversified among classes of risk or sources of origination. The exit from our property reinsurance and technical risk property insurance line and the casualty reinsurance commutations and recent rating action by A.M. Best, have further reduced our diversification in our product lines and will cause the concentrations across certain of our risk classes to increase; o changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to us, our brokers or our customers; o risks relating to our reliance on program managers, third-party administrators and other supporting vendors; o other risks of doing business with program managers, including the risk we might be bound to policyholder obligations beyond our underwriting intent, and the risk that our program managers or agents may elect not to continue or renew their programs with us; o we may require additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all; o changes in accounting policies or practices; and o changes in general economic conditions, including inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other factors. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from our projections. Additionally, the list of factors above is not exhaustive and should be read with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and that are otherwise described from time to time in our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reports filed after this annual report. Any forward-looking statements you read in this annual report reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to, among other things, our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or individuals acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. You should specifically consider the factors identified in this annual report that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements before making an investment decision. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Market data and forecasts used in this annual report have been obtained from independent industry sources as well as from research reports prepared for other purposes. We have not independently verified the data obtained from these sources and we cannot assure you of the accuracy or completeness of the data. Forecasts and other forward-looking information obtained from these 77 sources are subject to the same qualifications and uncertainties applicable to the other forward-looking statements in this annual report. 78 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 