Item 1A. Risk Factors This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, without limitation, statements about future events or our future financial performance. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “plan”, “believe”, “estimate”, “potential” or “continue”, the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results may differ materially from any forward-looking statement as a result of various factors, including those we discuss elsewhere in this report. In addition, we, or persons acting on our behalf, may from time to time publish or communicate other items that could also be construed to be forward-looking statements. Statements of this sort are or will be based on our estimates, assumptions and projections, and are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those specifically listed below that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. Factors that could affect our results and cause them to materially differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements include the following. If we are not able to purchase charged-off consumer receivables at appropriate prices, the resulting decrease in our inventory of purchased portfolios of receivables could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and our ability to grow. If we are unable to purchase charged-off consumer receivables from credit originators in sufficient face value amounts at appropriate prices, our business may be harmed. The availability of portfolios of consumer receivables at prices which generate an appropriate return on our investment depends on a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, including: • continued growth in the levels of consumer obligations; • charge-off rates; • continued growth in the number of industries selling charged-off consumer receivable portfolios; • continued sales of charged-off consumer receivable portfolios by credit originators; • competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and credit originators of charged-off receivables, including the number of firms engaged in the collection business and the capitalization of those firms as well as new entrants seeking returns, that may cause an increase in the price we are willing to pay for portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables or cause us to overpay for portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables; • our ability to purchase portfolios in industries in which we have little or no experience with the resulting risk of lower returns if we do not successfully purchase and collect these receivables; and • continued growth in the levels of credit being extended by credit originators. Over the last three to four years, we have seen prices for many asset classes of charged-off accounts receivable portfolios increase and, accordingly, we have paid higher prices and our ability to execute on our collection methods has taken on increased importance. Increased pricing also causes higher amortization rates which reduce our return. We cannot give any assurances about future prices either overall or within account or asset types. We are determined to remain disciplined and purchase portfolios only when we believe we can achieve acceptable returns. In addition, we believe that credit originators and debt sellers are utilizing more in-depth collection methodologies that result in lower quality portfolios available for purchase, which may render the portfolios available for sale less collectible. 17 Table of Contents Because of the length of time involved in collecting charged-off consumer receivables on acquired portfolios and the volatility in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing or collection strategies in a timely manner. Our ability to collect on our purchased receivables may suffer if the economy suffers a material and adverse downturn for a prolonged period. Our success depends on our continued ability to collect on our purchased receivables. If the economy suffers a material and adverse downturn for a prolonged period, we may not be able to collect during this period in a manner consistent with our past practice due to the inability of our customers to make payments to us. Any failure to collect would harm our results of operations. We generally account for purchased receivable revenues using the interest method of accounting in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, which requires making reasonable estimates of the timing and amount of future cash collections. If the timing and actual amount recovered by us is materially less than our estimates, it would cause us to recognize impairments and negatively impact our earnings. We utilize the interest method of accounting for our purchased receivables because we believe that the purchased receivables are discounted as a result of deterioration of credit quality and that the amounts and timing of cash collections for our purchased receivables can be reasonably estimated. This belief is predicated on our historical results and our knowledge of the industry. The interest method is prescribed by the Accounting Standards Executive Committee Practice Bulletin 6 (“PB 6”), “Amortization of Discounts on Certain Acquired Loans” as well as the Accounting Standards Executive Committee Statement of Position 03-3 (“SOP 03-3”), “Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer”. The provisions of SOP 03-3 were adopted by us in January 2005 and apply to purchased receivables acquired after December 31, 2004. The provisions of SOP 03-3 that relate to decreases in expected cash flows amend PB 6 for consistent treatment and apply prospectively to receivables acquired before January 1, 2005. Purchased receivables acquired before January 1, 2005 will continue to be accounted for under PB 6, as amended, for provisions related to decreases in expected cash flows. Each static pool of receivables is modeled to determine its projected cash flows based on historical cash collections for pools with similar characteristics. An internal rate of return (“IRR”) is calculated for each static pool of receivables based on the projected cash flows. The IRR is applied to the remaining balance of each static pool of accounts to determine the revenue recognized. Each static pool is analyzed at least quarterly to assess the actual performance compared to the expected performance. To the extent there are differences in actual performance versus expected performance, the IRR may be adjusted prospectively to reflect the revised estimate of cash flows over the remaining life of the static pool. Effective January 2005, under SOP 03-3, if revised cash flow estimates are less than the original estimates, the IRR remains unchanged and an impairment is recognized. If cash flow estimates increase subsequent to recording an impairment, reversal of the previously recognized impairment is made prior to any increases to the IRR. Application of the interest method of accounting requires the use of estimates, primarily estimated remaining collections, to calculate a projected IRR for each pool. These estimates are primarily based on historical cash collections. If future cash collections are materially different in amount or timing than the remaining collections estimate, earnings could be affected, either positively or negatively. Higher collection amounts or cash collections that occur sooner than projected cash collections will have a favorable impact on reversal of impairments, yields and revenues. Lower collection amounts or cash collections that occur later than projected cash collections will have an unfavorable impact and result in an impairment being recorded. Impairments may cause reduced earnings or volatility in earnings. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to acquire charged-off consumer receivables in sufficient amounts to operate efficiently and profitably. To operate profitably, we must continually acquire and service a sufficient amount of charged-off consumer receivables to generate cash collections that exceed our expenses. Fixed costs, such as salaries and lease or other facility costs, constitute a significant portion of our overhead and, if we do not continue to acquire charged-off consumer receivable portfolios, we may have to reduce the number of our collection personnel. We would then have to rehire collection staff as we obtain additional charged-off consumer receivable portfolios. These practices could lead to: • low employee morale; • fewer experienced employees; • higher training costs; • disruptions in our operations; • loss of efficiency; and • excess costs associated with unused space in our facilities. We may not be able to collect sufficient amounts on our charged-off consumer receivables, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our business consists of acquiring and collecting receivables that consumers have failed to pay and that the credit originator has deemed uncollectible and has charged-off. The credit originators or other debt sellers generally make numerous attempts to recover on their charged-off consumer receivables before we purchase such receivables, often using a combination of in-house recovery and third party collection efforts. Since there generally have been multiple efforts to collect on these portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables before we attempt to collect on them (three or more efforts on more than 50% of the face value of our portfolios), our attempts to collect on these portfolios may not be successful. Therefore, we may not collect a sufficient amount to cover our investment associated with purchasing the charged-off consumer receivable portfolios and the costs of running our business, which would adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that our ability to make collections in the future will be comparable to our success in making collections in the past. We experience high turnover rates for our account representatives and we may not be able to hire and retain enough sufficiently trained account representatives to support our operations. Our ability to collect on new and existing portfolios and to acquire new portfolios is substantially dependent on our ability to hire and retain qualified account representatives. The consumer accounts receivables management industry is labor intensive and, similar to other companies in our industry, we experience a high rate of employee turnover. For 2006, our annual turnover rate was 52.7% and our collection department employee turnover rate was 69.5%. Based on our experience, account representatives who have been with us for more than one year are generally more productive than account representatives who have been with us for less than one year. In 2006, our turnover rate for all associates employed by us for at least one year was 34.6% and 44.9% for collection department employees. We compete for qualified personnel with companies in our industry and in other industries. Our operations require that we continually hire, train and, in particular, retain new account representatives. In addition, we believe the level of training we provide to our employees makes our employees attractive to other collection companies, which may attempt to recruit them. A higher turnover rate among our account representatives will increase our recruiting and training costs, may require us to increase employee compensation levels and will limit the number of experienced collection personnel available to service our charged-off consumer receivables. If this were to occur, we would not be able to service our charged-off consumer receivables effectively, which would reduce our ability to operate profitably. 19 Table of Contents Failure to effectively manage our growth could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have expanded significantly over our history and we intend to grow in the future. However, any future growth will place additional demands on our resources and we cannot be sure that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. In order to successfully manage our growth, we may need to: • expand and enhance our administrative infrastructure; • improve our management, regulatory compliance and financial and information systems and controls; • recruit, train, manage and retain our employees effectively. Uncontrolled growth could place a strain on our management, operations and financial resources. We cannot assure you that our infrastructure, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support our future operations or to effectively adapt to future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We could determine that we have excess capacity and reduce the size of our workforce or close additional remote call center locations, which could negatively impact our ability to collect on our portfolios. We could experience excess capacity, which could lead to closing call center locations and relocating or reducing our workforce. A reduction in workforce may lead to a deterioration of company morale and could negatively impact our productivity. In addition, if we reduce our workforce we may not have resources available to collect on our portfolios. Both of these situations may adversely affect our results of operations. We face intense competition that could impair our ability to grow and achieve our goals. The consumer debt collection industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a wide range of other purchasers of charged-off consumer receivables, third party collection agencies, other financial service companies and credit originators and other owners of debt that manage their own charged-off consumer receivables. Some of these companies may have substantially greater personnel and financial resources and may experience lower account representative and employee turnover rates than we do. Furthermore, some of our competitors may obtain alternative sources of financing, the proceeds from which may be used to fund expansion and to increase their number of charged-off portfolio purchases. We believe that increasing amounts of capital are being invested in the debt collection industry, which has lead to and may continue to drive an increase prices for portfolios of charged-off accounts receivables, the enhanced ability of third parties to collect debt and the reduction in the number of portfolios of charged-off accounts receivables available for purchase. In addition, companies with greater financial resources than we have may elect at a future date to enter the consumer debt collection business. Competitive pressures affect the availability and pricing of receivable portfolios as well as the availability and cost of qualified debt account representatives. In addition, some of our competitors may have signed forward flow contracts under which consumer credit originators have agreed to transfer a steady flow of charged-off receivables to them in the future, which could restrict those credit originators from selling receivables to us. We face bidding competition in our acquisition of charged-off consumer receivable portfolios. We believe successful bids generally are awarded based predominantly on price and sometimes based on service and relationships with the debt sellers. Some of our current competitors, and possible new competitors, may have more effective pricing and collection models, greater adaptability to changing market needs and more established relationships in our industry than we have. Moreover, our competitors may elect to pay prices for portfolios that we determine are not reasonable and, in that event, our volume of portfolio purchases may be diminished. There can be no assurance that our existing or potential sources will continue to sell their charged-off consumer receivables at recent levels or at all, or that we will continue to offer competitive bids for charged-off consumer receivable portfolios. In addition, there continues to be a consolidation of issuers of credit cards, which have been a principal source of our receivable purchases. This consolidation has decreased the number of sellers in the market and, consequently, could over time, give the remaining sellers increasing market strength in the price and terms of the sale of charged-off credit card accounts and could cause us to accept lower returns on our investment in that paper than we have historically achieved. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and expand our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors, we may experience reduced access to portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables in sufficient face-value amounts at appropriate prices. As a result, we may experience reduced profitability which, in turn, may impair our ability to achieve our goals. Our strategy includes acquiring charged-off receivable portfolios in industries in which we may have little or no experience. If we do not successfully acquire and collect on these portfolios, revenue may decline and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may acquire portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables in industries in which we have limited experience. Some of these industries may have specific regulatory restrictions with which we have no experience. We may not be successful in consummating any acquisitions of receivables in these industries and our limited experience in these industries may impair our ability to effectively and efficiently collect on these portfolios. Furthermore, we need to develop appropriate pricing models for these markets and there is no assurance that we will do so effectively. When pricing charged-off consumer receivables for industries in which we have limited experience, we attempt to adjust our models for expected or known differences from our traditional models. However, our pricing models are primarily based on historical data for industries in which we do have experience. This may cause us to overpay for these portfolios, and consequently, our profitability may suffer as a result of these portfolio acquisitions. Historical operating results and quarterly cash collections may not be indicative of future performance. Our total revenues have grown at an average annual rate in excess of 32.7% for the five years 2002 through 2006 and 8.9% for the two years 2005 and 2006. We do not expect to achieve the same growth rates over five years in future periods. Therefore, our future operating results may not reflect past performance. In addition, our business depends on the ability to collect on our portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables. Collections within portfolios tend to be seasonally higher in the first and second quarters of the year, due to consumers’ receipt of tax refunds and other factors. Conversely, collections within portfolios tend to be lower in the third and fourth quarters of the year, due to consumers’ spending in connection with summer vacations, the holiday season and other factors. Operating expenses are seasonally higher during the first and second quarters of the year due to expenses necessary to process the increase in cash collections. However, revenue recognized is relatively level due to our application of the interest method for revenue recognition. In addition, our operating results may be affected to a lesser extent by the timing of purchases of portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables due to the initial costs associated with purchasing and integrating these receivables into our system. Consequently, income and margins may fluctuate quarter to quarter. If the pace of our growth slows, our quarterly cash collections and operating results may become increasingly subject to fluctuation. Our collections may decrease if bankruptcy filings increase or if bankruptcy laws or other debt collection laws change. During times of economic recession, the amount of charged-off consumer receivables generally increases, which contributes to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy filings. Under certain bankruptcy filings, a debtor’s assets are sold to repay creditors, but since the charged-off consumer receivables we are attempting to collect are generally unsecured or secured on a second or third priority basis, we often would not be able to collect on those receivables. Our collections may decline with an increase in bankruptcy filings or if the bankruptcy laws change in a manner adverse to our business, in which case, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Negative attention and news regarding the debt collection industry and individual debt collectors may have a negative impact on a debtor’s willingness to pay the debt we acquire. We train our collection associates on the relevant federal and state collection laws. In addition, we keep our collection department’s practices current through our annual FDCPA Review Training and annual Collection Techniques Training. We supplement these sessions using our internal communications tools and conduct special 21 Table of Contents training sessions as needed. Further, our Compliance Department’s Consumer Resolution Unit handles specific consumer complaints and our Quality Assurance teams work with collection management on monitoring collection activity. However, the following factors may cause consumers to be more reluctant to pay their debts or to pursue legal actions, which may be unwarranted, against us: • Annually the Federal Trade Commission submits a report to Congress, which summarizes the complaints it has received regarding debt collection practices. The report contains the total number of complaints filed, the percentage of increases or decreases from the previous year in addition to an outline of key types of complaints. • Print and television media, from time to time, may publish stories about the debt collection industry which may cite specific examples of abusive collection practices. • The Internet has websites where consumers list their concerns about the activities of debt collectors and seek guidance from other website posters on how to handle the situation. • Advertisements by “anti-collections” attorneys and credit counseling centers are becoming more common and add to the negative attention given to our industry. As a result of this negative publicity, debtors may be more reluctant to pay their debts or could pursue legal action, which may be unwarranted, against us. These actions could impact our ability to collect on the receivables we acquire and impact our ability to operate profitably. We are dependent on our management team for the adoption and implementation of our strategies and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends on the continued ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled managerial personnel. The continued growth and success of our business is particularly dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel (particularly in purchasing and collections), including Nathaniel F. Bradley IV, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Mark A. Redman, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, each of whom has been integral to the development of our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain these individuals. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate other officers and key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could disrupt our operations and seriously impair our ability to continue to acquire or collect on portfolios of charged-off consumer receivables and to manage and expand our business. We have employment agreements with each of Messrs. Bradley and Redman. However, these agreements do not and will not assure the continued services of these officers. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies for our executive officers or key personnel. Our ability to recover on our charged-off consumer receivables may be limited under federal and state laws. Federal and state consumer protection, privacy and related laws and regulations extensively regulate the relationship between debt collectors and debtors. Federal and state laws may limit our ability to recover on our charged-off consumer receivables regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit card issuers may preclude us from collecting on charged-off consumer receivables we purchase if the credit card issuer previously failed to comply with applicable law in generating or servicing those receivables. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted that would impose additional or more stringent requirements on the enforcement of and collection on consumer receivables. Any new laws, rules or regulations that may be adopted, as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws, may adversely affect our ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, federal and state governmental bodies are considering, and may consider in the future, other legislative proposals that would regulate the collection of consumer receivables. Although we cannot predict if or how any future legislation would impact our business, our failure to comply with any current or future laws or regulations applicable to us could limit our 22 Table of Contents ability to collect on our charged-off consumer receivable portfolios, which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. In addition to the possibility of new laws being enacted, it is possible that regulators and litigants may attempt to extend debtors’ rights beyond the current interpretations placed on existing statutes. These attempts could cause us to (i) expend significant financial and human resources in either litigating these new interpretations or (ii) alter our existing methods of conducting business to comply with these interpretations, either of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Our operations could suffer from telecommunications or technology downtime or from not responding to changes in technology. Our success depends in large part on sophisticated telecommunications and computer systems. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, through casualty or operating malfunction (including outside influences such as computer viruses), could disrupt our operations. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to access, maintain and expand the databases we use for our collection activities. Any failure of our information systems or software and their backup systems would interrupt our business operations and harm our business. In addition, we rely significantly on Ontario Systems LLC for the software used in operating our technology platform. Our business operations would be disrupted and our results of operations may be harmed if they were to cease operations or significantly reduce their support to us. Our access to capital through our line of credit may be critical to our ability to continue to grow. If our line of credit is materially reduced or terminated and if we are unable to replace it on favorable terms, our revenue growth may slow and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We believe that our access to capital through our line of credit has been critical to our ability to grow. We currently maintain a $100.0 million line of credit that expires May 31, 2008. Our line of credit includes an accordion loan feature that allows us to request a $20.0 million increase in the credit facility, subject to our compliance with certain conditions and financial covenants. Our financial strength has increased our ability to make portfolio purchases and we believe it has also enhanced our credibility with sellers of debt who are interested in dealing with firms possessing the financial wherewithal to consummate a transaction. If our line of credit is materially reduced or terminated as a result of noncompliance with a covenant or other event of default and if we are unable to replace it on relatively favorable terms, our revenue growth may slow and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to examinations and challenges by tax authorities. Our industry is relatively new and unique and as a result there is not a set of well defined laws, regulations or case law for us to follow that match our particular facts and circumstances for some tax positions. Therefore, certain tax positions we take are based on industry practice, tax advice and drawing similarities of our facts and circumstances to those in case law relating to other industries. These tax positions may relate to tax compliance, sales and use, franchise, gross receipts, payroll, property and income tax issues, including tax base and apportionment. Challenges made by tax authorities to our application of tax rules may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, as well as, inconsistent positions between different jurisdictions on similar matters. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in our favor, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and result of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We do not have any unresolved staff comments. 23 Table of Contents 