Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report and elsewhere in this report and include: • failures or interruptions of our systems and services; • security or privacy breaches; • loss of, or damage to, a data center; • termination, modification or non-renewal of our contracts to provide telephone number portability and other clearinghouse services; 13 • adverse changes in statutes or regulations affecting the communications industry; • our failure to adapt to rapid technological change in the communications industry; • competition from our customers’ in-house systems or from other providers of addressing, interoperability or infrastructure services; • our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance at desired pricing levels; • a decline in the volume of transactions we handle; • inability to manage our growth; • economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with our further potential expansion into international markets; • inability to obtain sufficient capital to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion; and • loss of members of senior management, or inability to recruit and retain skilled employees. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business The loss of, or damage to, a data center or any other failure or interruption to our network infrastructure could materially harm our revenue and impair our ability to conduct our operations. Because virtually all of the services we provide require communications service providers to query a copy of our continuously updated databases and directories to obtain necessary routing and other essential operational data, the integrity of our data centers, including network elements managed by third parties throughout the world, and the systems through which we deliver our services is essential to our business. Notably, our data centers and related systems are essential to the orderly operation of the U.S. telecommunications system because they enable CSPs to ensure that telephone calls are routed to the appropriate destinations. Our system architecture is integral to our ability to process a high volume of transactions in a timely and effective manner. Moreover, both we and our customers rely on hardware, software and other equipment developed, supported and maintained by third-party providers. We could experience failures or interruptions of our systems and services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: • damage to, or failure of, our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; • failure of, or defects in, the third party systems, software or equipment on which we or our customers rely to access our data centers and other systems; • errors in the processing of data by our system; • computer viruses or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; • increased capacity demands or changes in systems requirements of our customers; • power loss, natural disasters, or telecommunications failures; or • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. We may not have sufficient redundant systems or back-up facilities to allow us to receive and process data if one of the foregoing events occurs. Further, increases in the scope of services that we provide increase the complexity of our network infrastructure. As the scope of services we provide expands or changes in the future, we may be required to make significant expenditures to establish new data centers from which we may provide services. Moreover, as we add customers, expand our service offerings and increase our visibility in the market, the 14 likelihood that we will become a target of physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, DDoS attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events increases. If we cannot adequately protect the ability of our data centers and related systems to perform consistently at a high level and without interruptions, or otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations: • our reputation may be damaged, which may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers for our existing services, and may also make it more difficult for us to market our services; • we may be subject to significant penalties or damages claims, under our contracts or otherwise, including the requirement to pay substantial penalties related to service level requirements in our contracts; • we may be required to make significant expenditures to repair or replace equipment, third party systems or, in some cases, an entire data center, or to establish new data centers and systems from which we may provide services; • our operating expenses or capital expenditures may increase as a result of corrective efforts that we must perform; • our customers may postpone or cancel subsequently scheduled work or reduce their use of our services; or • one or more of our significant contracts may be terminated early, or may not be renewed. Any of these consequences would adversely affect our revenue, performance and business prospects. Security breaches could result in significant liabilities, interruptions of service or reduced quality of service, which could increase our costs or result in a reduction in the use of our services by our customers. Our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or similar disruptive problems. If unauthorized users gain access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify sensitive information that is stored or transmitted on our networks and that we are required by our contracts and FCC rules to keep confidential. Such a security or privacy breach could subject us to significant penalties as well as claims for damages under our contracts. Further, a security or privacy breach could result in an interruption of service or reduced quality of service, and we may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with corrective efforts we are required to perform. In addition, a security or privacy breach may harm our reputation and cause our customers to reduce their use of our services, which could harm our revenue and business prospects. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC represent in the aggregate a substantial portion of our revenue, are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us, and we may be unable to renew these contracts at the end of their term. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC, an industry group that represents all telecommunications service providers in the United States, to provide telephone number portability and other clearinghouse services are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These seven separate contracts, each of which represented between 6% and 13% of our total revenue in 2009, represented in the aggregate approximately 64% of our total revenue in 2009. North American Portability Management LLC could, at any time, solicit or receive proposals from other providers to provide services that are the same as or similar to ours. In addition, these contracts have finite terms and are currently scheduled to expire in June 2015. Furthermore, any of these contracts could be terminated in advance of its scheduled expiration date in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default of these agreements. Although these contracts do not contain cross-default provisions, conditions leading to a default by us under one of our contracts could lead to a default under others, or all seven. We may be unable to renew these contracts on acceptable terms when they are considered for renewal if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations, including for performance or other reasons, or if another provider offers to provide the same or similar services at a lower cost. In addition, competitive forces resulting from the possible entrance of a competitive provider could create significant pricing pressure, which could then cause us to reduce the selling price of our services under our contracts. If these contracts are terminated or modified in a manner that is adverse to us, or if we are unable to renew these contracts on acceptable terms upon their expiration, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Certain of our other contracts may be terminated or we may be unable to renew these contracts, which may reduce the number of services we can offer and damage our reputation. In addition to our contracts with NAPM, we rely on other contracts to provide other services that we offer, including the contracts that appoint us to serve as the: • North American Numbering Plan Administrator, under which we maintain the authoritative database of telephone numbering resources in North America; • National Pooling Administrator, under which we perform the administrative functions associated with the administration and management of telephone number inventory and allocation of pooled blocks of unassigned telephone numbers; • provider of number portability services in Canada; • operator of the .us registry; • operator of the .biz registry; and • operator of the registry of U.S. Common Short Codes. Each of these contracts provides for early termination in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default. In addition, our contracts to serve as the North American Numbering Plan Administrator and as the National Pooling Administrator and to operate the .us registry, each of which is with the U.S. government, may be terminated by the government at will. If we fail to meet the expectations of the FCC, the U.S. Department of Commerce or our customers, as the case may be, for any reason, including for performance-related or other reasons, or if another provider offers to perform the same or similar services for a lower price, we may be unable to extend or renew these contracts. Further, with respect to the renewal or extension of any of our government contracts, we may be subject to bid protests from a competitor, which may require the dedication of substantial company resources, and may result in the loss of the contract. If we were unable to renew or extend any of these contracts, the number of services we are able to offer may be reduced, which would adversely affect our revenue. Further, each of the contracts listed above establishes us as the sole provider of the particular services covered by that contract during its term. If one of these contracts were terminated, or if we were unable to renew or extend the term of any particular contract, we would no longer be able to provide the services covered by that contract and could suffer a loss of prestige that would make it more difficult for us to compete for contracts to provide similar services in the future. Failure to comply with neutrality requirements could result in loss of significant contracts. Pursuant to orders and regulations of the U.S. government and provisions contained in our material contracts, we must continue to comply with certain neutrality requirements, meaning generally that we cannot favor any particular telecommunications service provider, telecommunications industry segment or technology or group of telecommunications consumers over any other telecommunications service provider, industry segment, technology or group of consumers in the conduct of our business. The FCC oversees our compliance with the neutrality requirements applicable to us in connection with some of the services we provide. We provide to the FCC and the North American Numbering Council, a federal advisory committee established by the FCC to advise and make recommendations on telephone numbering issues, regular certifications relating to our compliance with these requirements. Our ability to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject may be affected by the activities of our stockholders or other parties. For example, if the ownership of our capital stock subjects us to undue influence by parties with a vested interest in the outcome of numbering administration, the FCC could determine that we are not in compliance with our neutrality obligations. Our failure to continue to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject under applicable orders and regulations of the U.S. government and commercial contracts may result in fines, corrective measures or termination of our contracts, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 Regulatory and statutory changes that affect us or the communications industry in general may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. The FCC has regulatory authority over certain aspects of our operations, most notably our compliance with our neutrality requirements. We are also affected by business risks specific to the regulated communications industry. Moreover, the business of our customers is subject to regulation that indirectly affects our business. As communications technologies and the communications industry continue to evolve, the statutes governing the communications industry or the regulatory policies of the FCC may change. If this were to occur, the demand for our services could change in ways that we cannot predict and our revenue could decline. These risks include the ability of the federal government, most notably the FCC, to: • increase regulatory oversight over the services we provide; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs that are disadvantageous to the services we provide, or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that require modification of the terms of our existing contracts, including the manner in which we charge for certain of our services. For example, • In November 2005, BellSouth Corporation filed a petition with the FCC seeking changes in the way our customers are billed for services provided by us under our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC; and • After the amendment of our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC in September 2006, Telcordia Technologies, Inc. filed a petition with the FCC requesting an order that would require North American Portability Management LLC to conduct a new bidding process to appoint a provider of telephone number portability services in the United States, which Telcordia has continued to pursue in response to our amendment of these contracts in January 2009. If successful, this petition could result in the loss of one or more of our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC or otherwise frustrate our strategic plans; • prohibit us from entering into new contracts or extending existing contracts to provide services to the communications industry based on actual or suspected violations of our neutrality requirements, business performance concerns, or other reasons; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs in a way that could cause changes to our operations or costs or the operations of our customers; • appoint, or cause others to appoint, substitute or add additional parties to perform the services that we currently provide; and • prohibit or restrict the provision or export of new or expanded services under our contracts, or prevent the introduction of other services not under the contracts based upon restrictions within the contracts or in FCC policies. In addition, we are subject to risks arising out of the delegation of the Department of Commerce’s responsibilities for the domain name system to the International Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or ICANN. Changes in the regulations or statutes to which our customers are subject could cause our customers to alter or decrease the services they purchase from us. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect future regulation or deregulation may have on our business. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change, we could lose customers or market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our addressing, interoperability and infrastructure services, and by developing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. Our ability to take advantage of opportunities in the market may require us to invest in 17 development and incur other expenses well in advance of our ability to generate revenue from these services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way, particularly in the early stages of launching a new service. Further, we may experience delays in the development of one or more features of our solutions, which could materially reduce the potential benefits to us for providing these services. In addition, there can be no assurance that our solutions will be adopted by potential customers, or that we will be able to reach acceptable contract terms with customers to provide these services. Our failure to adapt to meet market demand in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. Our customers face implementation and support challenges in introducing IP-based services, which may slow their rate of adoption or implementation of our solutions. Historically, communications service providers have been relatively slow to implement new, complex services such as instant messaging and other IP-based communications. For example, during 2008 and 2009, we witnessed slower than anticipated deployment of our mobile instant messaging solutions by our carrier customers. We have limited or no control over, and cannot accurately predict, the pace at which communications service providers implement these new IP-based services. Moreover, the launch of new IP-based services by communications service providers requires significant expenditures by our customers to market and drive adoption by end users. We do not control the decision over whether such expenditures will occur or the timing of such expenditures. In turn, even if CSPs attempt to drive adoption of new IP-based services, our future revenue and profits will also depend, in part, on the wide adoption of such services by end users. For instance, we may be required to expend substantial resources to support the efforts of our customers to market and drive the adoption of our mobile instant messaging services by end users. The failure of, or delay by, communications service providers to introduce and support IP-based services utilizing our solutions in a timely and effective manner, or the failure by end users to adopt such services, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The market for certain of our addressing, interoperability, and infrastructure services is competitive, which could result in fewer customer orders, reduced revenue or margins or loss of market share. Our services frequently compete against the in-house systems of our customers. In addition, although we are not a telecommunications service provider, we compete in some areas against communications service companies, communications software companies and system integrators that provide systems and services used by CSPs to manage their networks and internal operations in connection with telephone number portability, instant messaging and other communications transactions. We face competition from large, well-funded providers of addressing, interoperability and infrastructure services. Moreover, we are aware of other companies that are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing services that will compete with us. We anticipate continued growth of competition. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Also, many of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition that they can use to their advantage. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, reduced revenue, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which would harm our business. Our strategic initiatives relating to mobile instant messaging may be hampered by the actions of other industry participants with strategic objectives that are different than ours, as well as those of our competitors. Our mobile instant messaging solutions are integrated with the systems of our CSP customers and with mobile devices, and rely in part on our ability to interoperate with large Internet portals such as Yahoo! and Microsoft. Because our strategic objectives may not be aligned with those of our customers or the Internet portals, and because our customers and the Internet portals may not agree on the manner in which mobile instant messaging should operate, our ability to execute on our strategy may be hampered. As a result, revenue from our instant messaging solutions may not grow as expected and may decline. In addition, some of our mobile instant messaging solutions rely on the use of open standards. If we are unable to integrate our instant messaging solutions with systems used by 18 our customers or device manufacturers because they do not adopt open standards or otherwise, revenue from our instant messaging solutions may not grow as expected and may decline. Moreover, the proliferation of open standards and protocols could make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce products that compete with our solutions, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we were unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, the value of our services and solutions could be diminished. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights. Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our services and solutions that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used by third-parties who compete with our services and solutions. As we expand our business and introduce new services and solutions, there may be an increased risk of infringement and other intellectual property claims by third parties. From time to time, we and our customers may receive claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or may become aware of certain third party patents that may relate to our services and solutions. For example, our instant messaging solutions are designed to conform to Open Mobile Alliance, or OMA, specifications and those of other standards bodies. To the extent that any individual or organization that has contributed intellectual property to OMA or other standards bodies claims that it has retained its rights relating to such intellectual property, we may be subject to claims of infringement by such individuals or organizations, some of which have greater financial resources and larger intellectual property portfolios than our own. Additionally, some of our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement claims resulting from their use of our intellectual property embedded in their products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved, and the number of parties holding intellectual property within the communications industry, increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, the commercial success of our services and solutions may increase the risk that an infringement claim may be made against us. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us or against a customer for which we have an obligation to defend could result in costly litigation, the payment of substantial damages, and an injunction that prohibits us from continuing to offer the service or solution in question, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our intellectual property could be misappropriated, which could force us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Our ability to compete and continue to provide technological innovation is substantially dependent upon internally developed technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights in such technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, technology or trademarks. Effectively policing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. 19 Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance for our services at desired pricing levels could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Our competitors and customers may cause us to reduce the prices we charge for our services and solutions. The primary sources of pricing pressure include: • competitors offering our customers services at reduced prices, or bundling and pricing services in a manner that makes it difficult for us to compete. For example, a competing provider of interoperability services might offer its services at lower rates than we do, a competing domain name registry provider may reduce its prices for domain name registration or an ISP or a competitor may offer mobile instant messaging solutions at reduced prices or at no cost to the customer; • customers with a significant volume of transactions may have enhanced leverage in pricing negotiations with us; and • if our prices are too high, potential customers may find it economically advantageous to handle certain functions internally instead of using our services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of transactions we handle or the number of customers we serve, by generating higher revenue from enhanced services or by reducing our costs. A significant decline in the volume of transactions we handle could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under our contracts with NAPM, we earn revenue for telephone number portability services on an annual, fixed-fee basis. However, in the event that the volume of transactions in a given year is above or below the contractually established volume range for that year, the fixed-fee may be adjusted up or down, respectively, with any such adjustment being applied to the following year’s invoices. In addition, under our contract with the Canadian LNP Consortium Inc., we earn revenue on a per transaction basis. As a result, if industry participants in the United States reduce their usage of our services in a particular year to levels below the established volume range for that year or if industry participants in Canada reduce their usage of our services from their current levels, our revenue and results of operations may suffer. For example, consolidation in the industry could result in a decline in transactions if the remaining CSPs decide to handle changes to their networks internally rather than use the services that we provide. Moreover, if customer churn among CSPs in the industry stabilizes or declines, or if CSPs do not compete vigorously to lure customers away from their competitors, use of our telephone number portability and other services may decline. If CSPs develop internal systems to address their infrastructure needs, or if the cost of such transactions makes it impractical for a given carrier to use our services for these purposes, we may experience a reduction in transaction volumes. Finally, the trends that we believe will drive the future demand for our clearinghouse services, such as the emergence of IP services, growth of wireless services, consolidation in the industry, and pressure on carriers to reduce costs, may not actually result in increased demand for our existing services or for the ancillary directory services that we expect to offer, which would harm our future revenue and growth prospects. If we are unable to manage our costs, our profits could be adversely affected. Historically, sustaining our growth has placed significant demands on our management as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. For us to continue to manage our expanded operations, as well as any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to successfully manage our costs without compromising our quality of service, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our operations do not produce the expected benefits, we may experience higher turnover in our customer base and our revenue and profits could be adversely affected. 20 We may be unable to complete suitable acquisitions, or we may undertake acquisitions that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive to our business. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past, and one of our strategies is to pursue acquisitions selectively in the future. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution to our stockholders. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates, and we may be required to invest significant capital and resources after acquisition to maintain or grow the businesses that we acquire. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, or long-lived assets, or record adjustments to the purchase price that occur after the closing of the transaction, which could reduce our future reported earnings. If we fail to successfully integrate and support the operations of the businesses we acquire, or if anticipated revenue enhancements and cost savings are not realized from these acquired businesses, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Further, at times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities, neutrality-related risks or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. The failure to discover such issues prior to such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or long-lived assets could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In general, long-lived assets are only reviewed for impairment if impairment indicators are present. In assessing goodwill and long-lived assets for impairment, we make significant estimates and assumptions, including estimates and assumptions about market penetration, anticipated growth rates, and risk-adjusted discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and industry data. Some of the estimates and assumptions used by management have a high degree of subjectivity and require significant judgment on the part of management. Changes in estimates and assumptions in the context of our impairment testing may have a material impact, and any potential impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. Our expansion into international markets may be subject to uncertainties that could increase our costs to comply with regulatory requirements in foreign jurisdictions, disrupt our operations, and require increased focus from our management. Our instant messaging solutions predominantly target international markets. In addition, we are pursuing, and we intend to pursue in the future, other international business opportunities. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: • economic and political risks in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate; • difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • differences in foreign laws and regulations, including foreign tax, intellectual property, labor and contract law, as well as unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • differing technology standards and pace of adoption; • export restrictions on encryption and other technologies; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; 21 • increased competition by local, regional, or global companies; • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; and • international privacy, data security or consumer protection-related laws and regulations. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. Our senior management is important to our customer relationships, and the loss of one or more of our senior managers could have a negative impact on our business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team have established and maintain with our customers and our regulators contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations. If we do not retain our senior management, or if we fail to plan adequately for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We must recruit and retain skilled employees to succeed in our business, and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. We believe that an integral part of our success is our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced skills in the services and solutions that we provide and who work well with our customers in the regulated environment in which we operate. In particular, we must hire and retain employees with the technical expertise and industry knowledge necessary to maintain and continue to develop our operations and must effectively manage our growing sales and marketing organization to ensure the growth of our operations. Our future success depends on the ability of our sales and marketing organization to establish direct sales channels and to develop multiple distribution channels with Internet service providers and other third parties. The employees with the skills we require are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees at all levels, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. Health epidemics or other events such as wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest or other man-made or natural disasters could severely disrupt our business operations. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt business and the economies of the countries in which we do business, including those in Asia. Certain regions in Asia have reported outbreaks of a highly pathogenic flu caused by the H1N1 virus. In the first half of 2003, certain countries in Asia experienced an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, which seriously interrupted economic activities and caused the demands for goods and services to decrease in the affected regions. A recurrence of SARS or an outbreak of the H1N1 or other influenzas could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Such events could cause a significant disruption in our operations, services, development of our services, and customer demand for our services. Such significant disruptions could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to the Financial Market Conditions The recent financial crisis could negatively affect market utilization of our existing and new services and may harm our financial results. Our success depends on our ability to generate revenues from our existing services and our introduction of new services, extensions of existing services and geographic expansion. For some of the services we provide, the market has only recently developed, and the viability and profitability of these services is unproven. Our ability to grow our business will be compromised if we do not develop and market services that achieve broad market acceptance with our current and potential customers. If our service offerings do not gain widespread market acceptance, our financial results could suffer. The global economic disruption experienced during the second half of 2008 and 22 throughout 2009, and any continuing unfavorable changes in economic conditions, may result in lower overall spending by our current and potential customers, and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from our existing services, introduce new services or extensions of existing services and expand geographically. If the economic downturn is prolonged, we may have difficulty in maintaining and establishing a market for our existing and new services and our financial performance may suffer. Funds invested in auction rate securities that we hold may not be accessible in the short term, and we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these securities through an asset impairment charge. As of December 31, 2009, we had investments in auction rate securities, or ARS, with an aggregate par value totaling approximately $37.7 million, all of which are classified as current. Our ARS are floating rate securities with long-term maturities, certain of which have underlying assets that are guaranteed by third parties, and all of which were marketed by financial institutions with auction reset dates primarily at 28 or 35 day intervals to provide short-term liquidity. Beginning in February 2008, auctions for these securities began to fail, which has decreased the short-term liquidity of these securities and caused the interest rates earned on these securities to increase. We will not be able to access these remaining funds until a future auction for these ARS is successful, we sell the securities in a secondary market, or they are redeemed by the issuer. We can make no assurance that we would be able to sell our ARS in a secondary market at a favorable price or otherwise. We have the right to require the issuer of our ARS to repurchase the ARS at par value beginning on June 30, 2010. If the credit rating of either the issuer of the ARS or the third-party insurers of the underlying investments deteriorates, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the ARS through a loss in current period earnings. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash flow from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment or infrastructure, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. However, our neutrality requirements may limit or prohibit our ability to obtain debt or equity financing by restricting the ability of certain parties from acquiring our stock or our debt, or the amount that such parties may acquire. In addition, difficulties in the global credit markets have resulted in a substantial decrease in the availability of credit. Some commercial banks are refusing to provide financing, others are imposing more onerous terms on borrowers, including higher interest rates. As a result, additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, the terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may: • not be able to continue to meet customer demand for service quality, availability and competitive pricing; • be forced to reduce our operations; • not be able to expand or acquire complementary businesses; and • not be able to develop new services or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock could be caused by many things, including: • our perceived prospects and the prospects of the communications and Internet industries in general; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • changes in general valuations for communications companies; 23 • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; • sales of our Class A common stock by our officers, directors or principal stockholders; • sales of significant amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur; • sales of our Class A common stock due to a required divestiture under the terms of our certificate of incorporation; and • changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Each of these factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. Recently, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise enable holders of less than a majority of our voting securities to elect some of our directors; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • disqualify any individual from serving on our board if such individual’s service as a director would cause us to violate our neutrality requirements; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 24 In order to comply with our neutrality requirements, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership and transfer restrictions relating to telecommunications service providers and their affiliates, which may inhibit potential acquisition bids that our stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. In order to comply with neutrality requirements imposed by the FCC in its orders and rules, no entity that qualifies as a “telecommunications service provider” or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider, as such terms are defined under the Communications Act of 1934 and FCC rules and orders, may beneficially own 5% or more of our capital stock. As a result, subject to limited exceptions, our certificate of incorporation prohibits any telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider from beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding capital stock. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation provides that: • if one of our stockholders experiences a change in status or other event that results in the stockholder violating this restriction, or if any transfer of our stock occurs that, if effective, would violate the 5% restriction, we may elect to purchase the excess shares (i.e., the shares that cause the violation of the restriction) or require that the excess shares be sold to a third party whose ownership will not violate the restriction; • pending a required divestiture of these excess shares, the holder whose beneficial ownership violates the 5% restriction may not vote the shares in excess of the 5% threshold; and • if our board of directors, or its permitted designee, determines that a transfer, attempted transfer or other event violating this restriction has taken place, we must take whatever action we deem advisable to prevent or refuse to give effect to the transfer, including refusal to register the transfer, disregard of any vote of the shares by the prohibited owner, or the institution of proceedings to enjoin the transfer. Our board of directors has the authority to make determinations as to whether any particular holder of our capital stock is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. Any person who acquires, or attempts or intends to acquire, beneficial ownership of our stock that will or may violate this restriction must notify us as provided in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, any person who becomes the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our stock must notify us and certify that such person is not a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. If a 5% stockholder fails to supply the required certification, we are authorized to treat that stockholder as a prohibited owner — meaning, among other things, that we may elect to purchase the excess shares or require that the excess shares be sold to a third party whose ownership will not violate the restriction. We may request additional information from our stockholders to ensure compliance with this restriction. Our board will treat any “group,” as that term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as a single person for purposes of applying the ownership and transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation restricts our ability to purchase shares of our capital stock. If a purchase by us of shares of our capital stock results in a stockholder’s percentage interest in our outstanding capital stock increasing to over the 5% threshold, such stockholder must deliver the required certification regarding such stockholder’s status as a telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. In addition, to the extent that a repurchase by us of shares of our capital stock causes any stockholder to violate the restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our certificate of incorporation, that stockholder will be subject to all of the provisions applicable to prohibited owners, including required divestiture and loss of voting rights. These restrictions and requirements may: • discourage industry participants that might have otherwise been interested in acquiring us from making a tender offer or proposing some other form of transaction that could involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; and • discourage investment in us by other investors who are telecommunications service providers or who may be deemed to be affiliates of a telecommunications service provider. 25 The standards for determining whether an entity is a “telecommunications service provider” are established by the FCC. In general, a telecommunications service provider is an entity that offers telecommunications services to the public at large, and is, therefore, providing telecommunications services on a common carrier basis. Moreover, a party will be deemed to be an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider if that party controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a telecommunications service provider. A party is deemed to control another if that party, directly or indirectly: • owns 10% or more of the total outstanding equity of the other party; • has the power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of the directors or management of the other party; or • has the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the other party. The standards for determining whether an entity is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider and the rules applicable to telecommunications service providers and their affiliates are complex and may be subject to change. Each stockholder is responsible for notifying us if it is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 