Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of our recent Merger with PlainsCapital. On November 30, 2012, we acquired PlainsCapital pursuant to the Merger. The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine PlainsCapital Corporation’s business with our own. We expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of the two previously independent companies. Achieving the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of the Merger will depend in part on whether we integrate PlainsCapital Corporation’s businesses in an efficient and effective manner. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees. In addition, the integration of certain operations will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from our day-to-day business. Any inability to realize the full extent, or any, of the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of the Merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which could affect our financial condition and cause a decrease in our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of our common stock. An adverse change in real estate market values may result in losses in our banking segment and otherwise adversely affect our profitability. At December 31, 2012, approximately 29% of the loan portfolio of our banking segment was comprised of loans with real estate as the primary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A decline in real estate values generally and in Texas specifically could impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts we receive upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover the outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected by a decrease in real estate market values. If our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover actual loan losses, our banking segment earnings will be adversely affected. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that we could sustain losses because our borrowers may not repay their loans in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have historically accounted for this risk by maintaining an allowance for loan losses in an amount intended to cover Bank management’s estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio. As a result of the Merger, we were required under GAAP to estimate the fair value of the loan portfolio after the consummation of the Merger and write-down the recorded value of the portfolio to that estimate. For most loans, this process was accomplished by computing the net present value of estimated cash flows to be received from borrowers of these loans. PlainsCapital’s allowance for loan losses that had been maintained prior to the Merger was eliminated in this accounting process. A new allowance for loan losses has been established for loans made subsequent to consummation of the Merger and for any subsequent decrease in the estimate of cash flows to be received from the loans held at the time of the Merger. The estimate of fair value as of the consummation of the Merger was based on economic conditions at such time and on Bank management’s projections concerning both future economic conditions and the ability of the Bank’s borrowers to continue to repay their loans. If management’s assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect, however, the estimate of fair value may be higher than the actual fair value and we may suffer losses in excess of those estimated. Further, the allowance for loan losses established for new loans or for revised estimates may prove to be inadequate to cover actual losses, especially if economic conditions worsen. While management will endeavor to estimate the allowance to cover anticipated losses, no underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we could adopt to address credit risk could provide complete assurance that we will not incur unexpected losses. These losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, federal regulators periodically evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different from those of our Bank management. 33 Table of Contents Our geographic concentration may magnify the adverse effects and consequences of any regional or local economic downturn. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Texas. Substantially all of the real estate loans in our loan portfolio are secured by properties located in Texas, with more than 82% secured by properties located in the Dallas/Fort Worth and Austin/San Antonio markets at December 31, 2012. Adverse economic conditions in Texas may result in a reduction in the value of the collateral securing these loans. Likewise, substantially all of the real estate loans in our loan portfolio are made to borrowers who live and conduct business in Texas. In addition, mortgage origination fee income is dependent to a significant degree on economic conditions in Texas and California. During 2012, approximately 21% and 17% by dollar volume of our mortgage loans originated were collateralized by properties located in Texas and California, respectively. Texas insureds accounted for approximately 70% and 73% of our insurance segment’s gross premiums written in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Any regional or local economic downturn that affects Texas or, to a lesser extent, California, may affect us and our profitability more significantly and more adversely than our competitors that are less geographically concentrated. Our geographic concentration may also exacerbate the adverse effects on our insurance segment of inherently unpredictable catastrophic events. Our insurance segment expects to have large aggregate exposures to inherently unpredictable natural and man-made disasters of great severity, such as hurricanes, hail, tornados, windstorms, wildfires and acts of terrorism. Hurricanes Ike, Katrina and Rita highlighted the challenges inherent in predicting the impact of catastrophic events. The catastrophe models utilized by our insurance segment to assess its probable maximum insurance losses generally failed to adequately project the financial impact of these hurricanes. Although our insurance segment may attempt to exclude certain losses, such as terrorism and other similar risks, from some coverage that our insurance segment writes, it may be prohibited from, or may not be successful in, doing so. The occurrence of losses from catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our insurance segment’s ability to write new business and on its financial condition and results of operations. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of policyholder property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and our insurance segment expects that these factors will increase the severity of losses in the future. Factors that may influence our insurance segment’s exposure to losses from these types of events, in addition to the routine adjustment of losses, include, among others: · exhaustion of reinsurance coverage; · increases in reinsurance rates; · unanticipated litigation expenses; · unrecoverability of ceded losses; · impact on independent agent operations and future premium income in areas affected by catastrophic events; · unanticipated expansion of policy coverage or reduction of premium due to regulatory, legislative and/or judicial action following a catastrophic event; and · unanticipated demand surge related to other recent catastrophic events. Our insurance segment writes insurance primarily in the states of Texas, Arizona, Tennessee, Oklahoma, Georgia and Louisiana. In 2012, Texas accounted for 69.5%, Arizona accounted for 8.2%, Oklahoma accounted for 9.0%, Tennessee accounted for 6.2%, Georgia accounted for 3.2%, and Louisiana accounted for 1.8% of our premiums. As a result, a single catastrophe, destructive weather pattern, wildfire, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition or general economic trend affecting these regions or significant portions of these regions could adversely affect our insurance segment’s financial condition and results of operations more significantly than other insurance companies that conduct business across a broader geographic area. Although our insurance segment purchases catastrophe reinsurance to limit its exposure to these types of catastrophes, in the event of one or more major catastrophes resulting in losses to it in excess of $170.0 million, our insurance segment’s losses would exceed the limits of its reinsurance coverage. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings, capital levels and overall results. The majority of our assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, we are subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may impact our net interest income in our banking segment as well as the valuation of our 34 Table of Contents assets and liabilities in each of our segments. Earnings in our banking segment are significantly dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect to periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our banking segment’s assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” may work against us, and our earnings may be adversely affected. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, adversely affect the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. In particular, if mortgage interest rates increase, the demand for residential mortgage loans and the refinancing of residential mortgage loans will likely decrease, which will have an adverse effect on our income generated from mortgage origination activities. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results. Our insurance segment invested over 91% of its invested assets in fixed maturity assets such as bonds and mortgage-backed securities during the year ended December 31, 2012. Because bond trading prices decrease as interest rates rise, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our insurance segment’s financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, decreases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our insurance segment’s investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested will earn less. Additionally, mortgage-backed securities typically are prepaid more quickly when interest rates fall and the holder must reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. In periods of increasing interest rates, mortgage-backed securities typically are prepaid more slowly, which may require our insurance segment to receive interest payments that are below the then prevailing interest rates for longer time periods than expected. Market interest rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. We may not be able to accurately predict the likelihood, nature and magnitude of such changes or how and to what extent such changes may affect our business. We also may not be able to adequately prepare for, or compensate for, the consequences of such changes. Any failure to predict and prepare for changes in interest rates, or adjust for the consequences of these changes, may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results of operations. The investment performance of our insurance segment has suffered, and may further suffer, as a result of adverse capital market developments and other factors, which affect its financial results. Our insurance segment invests the premiums it receives from policyholders until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or other expenses. At December 31, 2012, our insurance segment’s invested assets consisted of $134.1 million in fixed maturity securities and $12.6 million in equity securities. During the year ended December 31, 2012, our insurance segment realized $6.3 million of net investment income, representing 3.9% of our insurance segment’s total revenues. Although our insurance segment’s investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, its investments are subject to a variety of investment risks, including those relating to general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity risk and credit and default risk. In particular, the volatility of our insurance segment’s claims may force it to liquidate securities, which may cause it to incur capital losses. If our insurance segment’s investment portfolio is not appropriately matched with its insurance liabilities, it may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover these liabilities. In addition, if we experience market disruption and volatility, such as that experienced in 2009 and 2010, we may experience additional losses on our investments and reductions in our earnings. Investment losses could significantly decrease the asset base and statutory surplus of our insurance segment, thereby adversely affecting its ability to conduct business and potentially its A.M. Best financial strength rating. Our banking segment is subject to funding risks associated with its high deposit concentration and reliance on brokered deposits. At December 31, 2012, our fifteen largest depositors, excluding First Southwest, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, accounted for 19.2% of our total deposits, and our five largest depositors, excluding First Southwest, accounted for 11.2% of our total deposits. Brokered deposits at December 31, 2012 accounted for 10.3% of our total deposits. The loss of one or more of our largest Bank customers, a significant decline in our deposit balances due to ordinary course fluctuations related to these customers’ businesses, or the loss of a significant amount of our brokered deposits could adversely affect our liquidity. Additionally, such circumstances could require us to raise deposit rates in an attempt to attract new deposits, or purchase federal funds or borrow funds on a short-term basis at higher rates, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Under applicable regulations, if the Bank were no longer “well capitalized,” the Bank would not be able to accept brokered deposits without the approval of the FDIC. 35 Table of Contents We are heavily dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries. We are a financial holding company engaged in the business of managing, controlling and operating our subsidiaries, including NLASCO and its two insurance company subsidiaries, NLIC and ASIC, as well as the Bank and the Bank’s subsidiaries, PrimeLending and First Southwest. We conduct no material business or other activity other than activities incidental to holding stock in NLASCO and the Bank. As a result, we rely substantially on the profitability of, and dividends from, these subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses, to satisfy our obligations and to pay dividends on our preferred stock. As with most financial institutions, the profitability of the Bank is subject to the fluctuating cost and availability of money, changes in interest rates and in economic conditions in general. PrimeLending and First Southwest contribute to the Bank’s profitability and, in turn, on its ability to pay dividends to us. If the Bank, however, is unable to make cash distributions to us, then we may also be unable to obtain funds from PrimeLending and First Southwest, and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations or make distributions on our preferred stock. Likewise, our insurance segment also operates as a holding company. Dividends and other permitted payments from its operating subsidiaries are expected to be its primary source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including any future debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to us. NLIC and ASIC are subject to significant regulatory restrictions and limitations under debt agreements limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends, including the indenture governing NLASCO’s LIBOR plus 3.40% notes due 2035 and the surplus indentures governing NLIC’s two LIBOR plus 4.10% and 4.05% notes due 2033 and ASIC’s LIBOR plus 4.05% notes due 2034. Together these restrictions could, in turn, limit NLASCO’s ability to pay dividends. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to generate income. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, including that of the Federal Reserve Board, the Texas Department of Banking, the Texas Department of Insurance, the FDIC, the CFPB, the SEC and FINRA. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. Insurance regulations promulgated by state insurance departments are primarily intended to protect policyholders rather than stockholders. Likewise, regulations promulgated by FINRA are primarily intended to protect customers of broker-dealer businesses rather than stockholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in damages, civil money penalties or reputational damage, as well as sanctions and supervisory actions by regulatory agencies that could subject us to significant restrictions on our business and our ability to expand through acquisitions or branching. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations of laws and regulations, such violations may occur from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. Congress and federal regulatory agencies frequently revise banking and securities laws, regulations and policies. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which significantly alters the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the CFPB and requires the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We expect that several aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act may affect our business, including, without limitation, increased capital requirements, increased mortgage regulation, restrictions on proprietary trading in securities, restrictions on investments in hedge funds and private equity funds, executive compensation restrictions and disclosure and reporting requirements. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations will affect our business. Compliance with these new laws and regulations likely will result in additional costs, which could be significant and may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Bank received a “satisfactory” CRA rating in connection with its most-recent CRA Performance Evaluation. A CRA rating of less than “satisfactory” adversely affects a bank’s ability to establish new branches and impairs a bank’s ability to commence new activities that are “financial in nature” or acquire companies engaged in these activities. Other regulatory exam ratings or findings also may otherwise impact our ability to branch, commence new activities or make acquisitions. 36 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether or in what form any other proposed regulations or statutes will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Such changes could subject our business to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. We may be unable to increase or maintain our level of qualified small business lending from our banking segment, which could subject us to higher dividend rates on our outstanding preferred stock. We sold $114.1 million of our Series B Preferred Stock to the Secretary of the United States Treasury Department (“Treasury”) pursuant to the SBLF. The SBLF encourages participant banks to increase their lending to small businesses by offering banks reduced dividend rates on the senior preferred shares they issued to the Secretary of the Treasury if they meet certain thresholds of increased small business lending. We could become subject to higher dividend rates and penalties in the future depending upon our future level of qualified lending to small businesses relative to our defined “baseline” level. Until December 31, 2013, the dividend rate we pay on any outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock will fluctuate on a quarterly basis between one percent (1%) and five percent (5%) per annum, based upon changes in the level of qualified small business lending by the Bank measured against the Baseline. From January 1, 2014 through March 26, 2016, if we have not sufficiently increased our small business lending we may become subject to a dividend rate as high as seven percent (7%) per annum, and may be required to pay a dividend rate penalty of 0.5% per quarter. Beginning March 27, 2016, the dividend rate on any outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock will be fixed at nine percent (9%) per annum. The future demands for additional lending are unclear and uncertain, and our ability to make qualifying small business loans depends on a number of factors, many of which may be outside of our control. These factors include, among other things, general economic conditions, demand for loans, the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, the ability of borrowers to meet our lending standards, competition from other lenders, the lending policies of our competitors and regulatory restrictions. If we fail to maintain or increase our level of qualified small business lending from our Baseline, the resulting increase in the dividend rate on the Series B Preferred Stock could increase our cost of capital and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our mortgage origination segment is subject to investment risk on loans that it originates. We intend to sell, and not hold for investment, substantially all residential mortgage loans that we originate through PrimeLending. At times, however, we may originate a loan or execute an interest rate lock commitment (“IRLC”) with a customer pursuant to which we agree to originate a mortgage loan on a future date at an agreed-upon interest rate without having identified a purchaser for such loan or the loan underlying such IRLC. An identified purchaser may also decline to purchase a loan for a variety of reasons. In these instances, we will bear interest rate risk on an IRLC until, and unless, we are able to find a buyer for the loan underlying such IRLC and the risk of investment on a loan until, and unless, we are able to find a buyer for such loan. In addition, if a customer defaults on a mortgage payment shortly after the loan is originated, the purchaser of the loan may have a put right, whereby the purchaser can require us to repurchase the loan at the full amount that it paid. During periods of market downturn, we have at times chosen to hold mortgage loans when the identified purchasers have declined to purchase such loans because we could not obtain an acceptable substitute bid price for such loan. The failure of mortgage loans that we hold on our books to perform adequately could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our financial advisory business is subject to various risks associated with the securities industry, particularly those impacting the public finance industry. Our financial advisory business is subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include: · intense competition in the public finance and other sectors of the securities industry; · the volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets; · extensive governmental regulation; · litigation; and · substantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities. As a result, the revenues and operating results of our financial advisory segment may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide financial advisory, underwriting and other services. Disruptions in fixed income and equity markets could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and therefore, to declines in revenues from commissions and clearing services. First Southwest is much smaller and has much less capital than many competitors in the securities industry. In addition, First Southwest is an operating subsidiary of the Bank, which means that its activities are limited to those that are permissible for the Bank. 37 Table of Contents We ultimately may write-off goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions of NLASCO and PlainsCapital. As a result of purchase accounting for our acquisitions of NLASCO and PlainsCapital, our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2012, contained goodwill and other intangible assets aggregating $331.5 million. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, the value of these intangible assets may not be realized by us. If we determine that a material impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if we are exposed to actual conditions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in this Annual Report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that are considered “critical” by us because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, such events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, upon the continued service and skills of our existing management team and other key employees with long-term customer relationships. Our business and growth strategies are built primarily upon our ability to retain employees with experience and business relationships within their respective segments. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, we currently do not have non-competition agreements with certain members of management and other key employees. If any of these personnel were to leave and compete with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth could suffer. A decline in the market for advisory services could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our financial advisory segment has historically earned a significant portion of its revenues from advisory fees paid to it by its clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client’s transaction. Financial advisory revenues from the public finance group of First Southwest represented the largest component of our financial advisory segment’s net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. Unlike other investment banks, First Southwest earns most of its revenues from its advisory fees and, to a lesser extent, from other business activities such as commissions and underwriting. New issuances in the municipal market by cities, counties, school districts, state and other governmental agencies, airports, healthcare institutions, institutions of higher education and other clients that First Southwest’s public finance group serves can be subject to significant fluctuations based on by factors such as changes in interest rates, property tax bases, budget pressures on certain issuers caused by uncertain economic times and other factors. We expect that the reliance of our financial advisory segment on advisory fees will continue for the foreseeable future, and a decline in public finance advisory engagements or the market for advisory services generally would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Negative publicity regarding us, or financial institutions in general, could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct our business could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion regarding our company, or financial institutions in general, is inherent in our business. Adverse perceptions concerning our reputation could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. In particular, negative perceptions concerning our reputation could lead to decreases in the level of deposits that consumer and commercial 38 Table of Contents customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us. Negative public opinion could result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including lending or foreclosure practices; sales practices; corporate governance and potential conflicts of interest; ethical failures or fraud, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or pricing practices; regulatory compliance; protection of customer information; cyber-attacks, whether actual, threatened, or perceived; negative news about us or the financial institutions industry generally; general company performance; or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to such activities or circumstances. Furthermore, our failure to address, or the perception that we have failed to address, these issues appropriately could impact our ability to keep and attract customers and/or employees and could expose us to litigation and/or regulatory action, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operational systems and networks have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of continually evolving cybersecurity or other technological risks, which could result in a loss of customer business, financial liability, regulatory penalties, damage to our reputation or the disclosure of confidential information. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business and maintain the security of confidential information and complex transactions, which subjects us to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities due to a combination of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet to conduct financial transactions, as well as a potential failure of interruption or breach in the security of these systems, including those that could result from attacks or planned changes, upgrades and maintenance of these systems. Such cyber incidents could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, securities trading, general ledger, deposits, computer systems, electronic underwriting servicing or loan origination systems. Third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade our systems and networks with measures such as intrusion and detection prevention systems and monitoring firewalls to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Our computer systems, software and networks may be adversely affected by cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information); account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber attacks; and other events. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances, as a means to promote political ends. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client information, damage to our reputation with our clients and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies, regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both us and our clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We have been the subject of denial of services attacks from external sources that have limited or interrupted the availability of our online banking services. Although to date we are not aware of any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, we may suffer such losses in the future. We have taken steps to improve and upgrade the security of our systems in response to such threats, such incidents could occur again, but they could occur more frequently or on a more significant scale. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service and insurance companies, which may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our banking and mortgage origination businesses face vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services than we do. We also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations, each of which may offer more favorable financing than we are able to provide. In addition, some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. The banking business in Texas, particularly in the Austin, Dallas/Fort Worth, Lubbock and San Antonio metropolitan and surrounding areas, has become increasingly competitive over the past several years, and we expect the level of competition we face to further increase. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete effectively in these markets. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 39 Table of Contents The insurance industry also is highly competitive and has, historically, been characterized by periods of significant price competition, alternating with periods of greater pricing discipline during which competitors focus on other factors. In the current market environment, competition in our insurance business’ industry is based primarily on products offered, service, experience, the strength of agent and policyholder relationships, reputation, speed and accuracy of claims payment, perceived financial strength, ratings, scope of business, commissions paid and policy and contract terms and conditions. Our insurance business competes with many other insurers, including large national companies who have greater financial, marketing and management resources than our insurance segment. Many of these competitors also have better ratings and market recognition than our insurance business. Our insurance segment seeks to distinguish itself from its competitors by providing a broad product line and targeting those market segments that provide the best opportunity to earn an underwriting profit. In addition, a number of new, proposed or potential industry developments also could increase competition in our insurance business’ industry. These developments include changes in practices and other effects caused by the Internet (including direct marketing campaigns by our insurance segment’s competitors in established and new geographic markets), which have led to greater competition in the insurance business and increased expectations for customer service. These developments could prevent our insurance business from expanding its book of business. Our insurance business also faces competition from new entrants into the insurance market. New entrants do not have historic claims or losses to address and, therefore, may be able to price policies on a basis that is not favorable to our insurance business. New competition could reduce the demand for our insurance segment’s insurance products, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. The financial advisory and investment banking industries also are intensely competitive industries and will likely remain competitive. Our financial advisory business competes directly with numerous other financial advisory and investment banking firms, broker-dealers and banks, including large national and major regional firms and smaller niche companies, some of whom are not broker-dealers and, therefore, not subject to the broker-dealer regulatory framework. In addition to competition from firms currently in the industry, there has been increasing competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. Our financial advisory business competes on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of advice and service, innovation, reputation and price. Many of our financial advisory segment’s competitors in the investment banking industry have a greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more managing directors to serve their clients’ needs, greater global reach and more established relationships with their customers than our financial advisory business. Additionally, certain competitors of our financial advisory business have reorganized or plan to reorganize from investment banks into bank holding companies which may provide them with a competitive advantage. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be more capable of responding to changes in the investment banking market, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share generally. Increased pressure created by any current or future competitors, or by competitors of our financial advisory business collectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased competition may result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, our financial advisory business may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that also could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our mortgage origination and insurance businesses are subject to seasonal fluctuations and, as a result, our results of operations for any given quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Our mortgage origination business is subject to several variables that can impact loan origination volume, including seasonal and interest rate fluctuations. We typically experience increased loan origination volume from purchases of homes during the second and third quarters, when more people tend to move and buy or sell homes. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may, among other things, adversely affect the demand for mortgage loans and our ability to originate mortgage loans. In particular, if mortgage interest rates increase, the demand for residential mortgage loans and the refinancing of residential mortgage loans will likely decrease, which will have an adverse effect on our mortgage origination activities. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to increased competition for mortgage loan origination business. As a result of these variables, our results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Generally, our insurance segment’s insured risks exhibit higher losses in the second and third quarters due to a seasonal concentration of weather-related events in its primary geographic markets. Although weather-related losses (including hail, high winds, tornadoes and hurricanes) can occur in any calendar quarter, the second calendar quarter, historically, has experienced the highest frequency of losses associated with these events. Hurricanes, however, are more likely to occur in the third calendar quarter of the year. 40 Table of Contents If the actual losses and loss adjustment expenses of our insurance segment exceed its loss and expense estimates, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The financial condition and results of operations of our insurance segment depend upon its ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that it insures. Our insurance segment establishes reserve liabilities to cover the payment of all losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred under the policies that it writes. These liability estimates include case estimates, which are established for specific claims that have been reported to our insurance segment, and liabilities for claims that have been incurred but not reported (“IBNR”). Loss adjustment expenses represent expenses incurred to investigate and settle claims. To the extent that losses and loss adjustment expenses exceed estimates, NLIC and ASIC will be required to increase their reserve liabilities and reduce their income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. In addition, increasing reserves causes a reduction in policyholders’ surplus and could cause a downgrade in the ratings of NLIC and ASIC. This, in turn, could diminish our ability to sell insurance policies. The liability estimation process for our insurance segment’s casualty insurance coverage possesses characteristics that make case and IBNR reserving inherently less susceptible to accurate actuarial estimation than is the case with property coverages. Unlike property losses, casualty losses are claims made by third-parties of which the policyholder may not be aware and, therefore, may be reported a significant time after the occurrence, including sometimes years later. As casualty claims most often involve claims of bodily injury, assessment of the proper case estimates is a far more subjective process than claims involving property damage. In addition, in determining the case estimate for a casualty claim, information develops slowly over the life of the claim and can subject the case estimation to substantial modification well after the claim was first reported. Numerous factors impact the casualty case reserving process, such as venue, the amount of monetary damage, legislative activity, the permanence of the injury and the age of the claimant. The effects of inflation could cause the severity of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of policyholder property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and our insurance segment expects that these factors will increase the severity of losses in the future. As NLASCO observed in 2008, the severity of some catastrophic weather events, including the scope and extent of damage and the inability to gain access to damaged properties, and the ensuing shortages of labor and materials and resulting demand surge, provide additional challenges to estimating ultimate losses. Our insurance segment’s liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above liabilities established for these costs, our insurance segment expects to be required to increase its liabilities, together with a corresponding reduction in its net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Estimating an appropriate level of liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expense is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual loss and loss adjustment expenses paid will likely deviate, perhaps substantially, from the liability estimates reflected in our insurance segment’s consolidated financial statements. Claims could exceed our insurance segment’s estimate for liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. If our insurance segment cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks it underwrites or its reinsurers do not pay losses in a timely fashion, or at all, our insurance segment will suffer greater losses from these risks or may reduce the amount of business it underwrites, which may materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance segment purchases reinsurance to protect itself from certain risks and to share certain risks it underwrites. During 2012 and 2011, our insurance segment’s personal lines ceded 12.1% and 12.0%, respectively, of its direct insurance premiums written (primarily through excess of loss, quota share and catastrophe reinsurance treaties) and its commercial lines ceded 4.9% and 4.9%, respectively, of its direct insurance premiums written (primarily through excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance treaties). The total cost of reinsurance, inclusive of per risk excess and catastrophe, increased 9.0% in the year ended December 31, 2012, which is partially attributable to higher reinstatement premiums in 2012 of $0.4 million. Reinsurance cost generally increases as a result of hurricanes or any diminished capacity in the reinsurance market. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they have considered adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, our insurance segment may not be able to obtain desired amounts of reinsurance. Even if our insurance segment is able to obtain adequate reinsurance, it may not be able to obtain it from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness or negotiate terms that it deems appropriate or acceptable. Although the cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in our insurance segment’s premium 41 Table of Contents rates, our insurance segment may have guaranteed certain premium rates to its policyholders. Under these circumstances, if the cost of reinsurance were to increase with respect to policies for which our insurance segment guaranteed the rates, our insurance segment would be adversely affected. In addition, if our insurance segment cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks it underwrites, it may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or it may be forced to reduce the amount of business that it underwrites for such risks, which will reduce our insurance segment’s revenue and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2012, our insurance segment had $18.6 million in reinsurance recoverables, including ceded paid loss recoverables, ceded losses and loss adjustment expense recoverables and ceded unearned insurance premiums. Our insurance segment expects to continue to purchase substantial reinsurance coverage in the foreseeable future. Because our insurance segment remains primarily liable to its policyholders for the payment of their claims, regardless of the reinsurance it has purchased relating to those claims, in the event that one of its reinsurers becomes insolvent or otherwise refuses to reimburse our insurance segment for losses paid, or delays in reimbursing our insurance segment for losses paid, its liability for these claims could materially and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to legal claims and litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face significant legal risks in each of the business segments in which we operate, and the volume of legal claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial service companies remains high. These risks often are difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or any of our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. Further, regulatory inquiries and subpoenas, other requests for information, or testimony in connection with litigation may require incurrence of significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and fees associated with document production. These costs may be incurred even if we are not a target of the inquiry or a party to the litigation. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the foreclosure on real estate assets securing the loan portfolio of our banking segment. Hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental hazards may be located on the real estate that secures our loans. If we acquire such properties as a result of foreclosure, or otherwise, we could become subject to various environmental liabilities. For example, we could be held liable for the cost of cleaning up or otherwise addressing contamination at or from these properties. We could also be held liable to a governmental entity or third party for property damage, personal injury or other claims relating to any environmental contamination at or from these properties. In addition, we could be held liable for costs relating to environmental contamination at or from our current or former properties. We may not detect all environmental hazards associated with these properties. If we ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide timely and reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our financial statements may not accurately reflect our financial condition. Inadequate internal controls over financial reporting could impact the reliability and timeliness of our financial reports and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on our business and the value of our securities. The debt agreements of our insurance segment and its controlled affiliates contain financial covenants and impose restrictions on its business. The indenture governing NLASCO’s LIBOR plus 3.40% notes due 2035 contains restrictions on its ability to, among other things, declare and pay dividends and merge or consolidate. In addition, this indenture contains a change of control provision, which provides that (i) if a person or group becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of NLASCO’s equity securities and (ii) if NLASCO’s ratings are downgraded by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (as defined in the Exchange Act), then each holder of the notes governed by such indenture has the right to require that NLASCO purchase such holder’s notes, in whole or in part, at a price equal to 100% of the then outstanding principal amount. 42 Table of Contents Likewise, the surplus indentures governing NLIC’s two LIBOR plus 4.10% and 4.05% notes due 2033 and ASIC’s LIBOR plus 4.05% notes due 2034 contain restrictions on dividends and mergers and consolidations. In addition, NLASCO has other credit arrangements with its affiliates and other third-parties. NLASCO’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these restrictions could result in a default under the loan agreements or indentures governing the notes or under its other debt agreements. An event of default under its debt agreements would permit some of its lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If NLASCO were unable to repay debt to its secured lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. In addition, acceleration of its other indebtedness may cause NLASCO to be unable to make interest payments on the notes. Other agreements that NLASCO or its insurance company subsidiaries may enter into in the future may contain covenants imposing significant restrictions on their respective businesses that are similar to, or in addition to, the covenants under their respective existing agreements. These restrictions may affect NLASCO’s ability to operate its business and may limit its ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Risks Related to our Substantial Cash Position and Related Strategies for its Use Because we intend to use a substantial portion of our remaining available cash to make acquisitions or effect a business combination, we may become subject to risks inherent in pursuing and completing any such acquisitions or business combination. We are endeavoring to make acquisitions or effect business combinations with a substantial portion of our remaining available cash. We may not, however, be able to identify suitable targets, consummate acquisitions or effect a combination on commercially acceptable terms or, if consummated, successfully integrate personnel and operations. The success of any acquisition or business combination will depend upon, among other things, the ability of management and our employees to integrate personnel, operations, products and technologies effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain customers and clients of targets. In addition, any acquisition or business combination we undertake may consume available cash resources, result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business that we acquire or with which we merge, our diligence may not surface all material issues that may adversely affect a particular target business, and we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Consequently, we also may need to make further investments to support the acquired or combined company and may have difficulty identifying and acquiring the appropriate resources. We may enter, through acquisitions or a business combination, into new lines of business or initiate new service offerings subject to the restrictions imposed upon us as a regulated financial holding company. Accordingly, there is no basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular target business with which we may combine or that we may ultimately acquire. Existing circumstances may result in several of our directors having interests that may conflict with our interests. A director who has a conflict of interest with respect to an issue presented to our board will have no inherent legal obligation to abstain from voting upon that issue. We do not have provisions in our bylaws or charter that require an interested director to abstain from voting upon an issue, and we do not expect to add provisions in our charter and bylaws to this effect. Although each director has a duty to act in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests, there is a risk that, should interested directors vote upon an issue in which they or one of their affiliates has an interest, their vote may reflect a bias that could be contrary to our best interests. In addition, even if an interested director abstains from voting, the director’s participation in the meeting and discussion of an issue in which they have, or companies with which they are associated have, an interest could influence the votes of other directors regarding the issue. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the yield on our available cash. Our primary objective is to preserve and maintain the liquidity of our available cash, while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for a prolonged period. This volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels, resulting in dramatic declines in interest 43 Table of Contents rates and other yields relative to risk. This downward pressure has negatively affected the yields we receive on our available cash. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will receive any significant yield on our available cash. Further, given current market conditions, no assurance can be given that we will be able to preserve our available cash. If regulators determine that we control SWS Group, Inc., we will be required to file appropriate reports with the Federal Reserve Board and potentially provide financial support. As a general matter, an investor is deemed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls 25% or more of any class of voting stock. Subject to rebuttal, an investor may be presumed to control a depository institution or other company if the investor owns or controls ten percent or more of any class of voting stock. At December 31, 2012, we beneficially owned 24.6% of the outstanding common stock of SWS Group, Inc. (“SWS”). In connection with the transactions entered into with SWS, we filed a Rebuttal of Control, which the Office of Thrift Supervision, now a part of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, accepted based upon the facts represented by us. The transaction documents also provide for mechanisms to prevent us from being deemed to “control” SWS through our ownership of voting securities. Notwithstanding this finding by the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the event that we were determined to “control” SWS, we would be required to file appropriate reports as a financial holding company regulated by the Federal Reserve Board reflecting our controlling interest in SWS. In connection with our transaction with PlainsCapital, we provided certain passivity commitments to the Federal Reserve Board related to SWS. These passivity commitments provide that we cannot take certain actions, namely exercising any controlling influence over management or policies, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. In addition, it is a policy of the Federal Reserve Board that a bank holding company should serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to the depository institutions that it controls. The Dodd-Frank Act requires by statute that all holding companies serve as a source of financial strength for any subsidiary of the holding company. The Federal Reserve Board and the other banking agencies have not published a proposed rule implementing these “source of strength” requirements. Given that the Federal Reserve Board became the primary federal regulator of savings and loan holding companies (“SLHCs”), such as SWS, the policy for SLHCs on this subject likely will be altered to align more closely with those for bank holding companies. The regulators may require certain financial and other action by a regulated holding company in support of controlled depository institutions even if such action is not in the best interests of the regulated holding company or its stockholders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue shares of preferred stock or additional shares of common stock to complete an acquisition or effect a combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of an acquisition or combination, which would dilute the interests of our stockholders and likely present other risks. The issuance of shares of preferred stock or additional shares of common stock: · may significantly dilute the equity interest of our stockholders; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; · could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our authorized capital stock includes ten million shares of preferred stock, and we currently have 114,068 shares of Series B Preferred Stock issued and outstanding, liquidation preference $1,000 per share, to the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the SBLF. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may designate and issue one or more additional series of preferred stock from the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock. Subject to limitations imposed by law or our articles of incorporation, our board of directors is empowered to determine the designation and number of shares constituting each series of preferred stock, as well as any designations, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions or special or relative rights of additional series. The rights of preferred stockholders may supersede the rights of common stockholders. Preferred stock could be issued with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the shares of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also result in a series of securities outstanding that would have preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends and in liquidation. 44 Table of Contents Our common stock price may experience substantial volatility, which may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. Price volatility of our common stock may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. Market price fluctuations in our common stock may arise due to acquisitions, dispositions or other material public announcements, including those regarding dividends or changes in management, along with a variety of additional factors, including, without limitation, other risks identified in “Forward-looking Statements” and these “Risk Factors.” In addition, the stock markets in general, including the NYSE, have experienced extreme price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. We are organized under Maryland law, which provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter eliminates our directors’ and officers’ liability to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and that is material to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, our stockholders and we may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. The Treasury’s investment in us imposes restrictions and obligations upon us that could adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. We have sold 114,068 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $1,000 per share, for $114.1 million, to the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the SBLF. The shares of Series B Preferred Stock are senior to shares of our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation preference. The terms of the Series B Preferred Stock provided for the payment of non-cumulative dividends on a quarterly basis. The dividend rate, as a percentage of the liquidation amount, fluctuates while the Series B Preferred Stock is outstanding based upon changes in the level of qualified small business lending by the Bank from its Baseline. As long as shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, we may not pay dividends to our common stockholders (nor may we repurchase or redeem any shares of our common stock) during any quarter in which we fail to declare and pay dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock and for the next three quarters following such failure. In addition, under the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock, we may only declare and pay dividends on our common stock (or repurchase shares of our common stock), if, after payment of such dividend, the dollar amount of our Tier 1 capital would be at least ninety percent (90%) of Tier 1 capital as of September 27, 2011, excluding any charge-offs and redemptions of the Series B Preferred Stock (the “Tier 1 Dividend Threshold”). The Tier 1 Dividend Threshold is subject to reduction, beginning January 1, 2014, based upon the extent by which, if at all, the Bank’s qualified small business lending at September 30, 2013 has increased over the Baseline. Our charter and laws contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Authority to Issue Additional Shares. Under our charter, our board of directors may issue up to an aggregate of ten million shares of preferred stock without stockholder action. The preferred stock may be issued, in one or more series, with the preferences and other terms designated by our board of directors that may delay or prevent a change in control of us, even if the change is in the best interests of stockholders. At December 31, 2012, 114,068 shares of preferred stock were designated or outstanding. Banking Laws. Any change in control of our company is subject to prior regulatory approval under the Bank Holding Company Act or the Change in Bank Control Act, which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of us. Insurance Laws. NLIC and ASIC are domiciled in the State of Texas. Before a person can acquire control of an insurance company domiciled in Texas, prior written approval must be obtained from the Texas Department of Insurance. Acquisition of control would be presumed on the acquisition, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of our outstanding voting 45 Table of Contents stock, unless the regulators determine otherwise. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the Texas Department of Insurance will consider several factors, such as: · the financial strength of the acquirer; · the integrity and management experience of the acquirer’s board of directors and executive officers; · the acquirer’s plans for the management of the insurer; · the acquirer’s plans to declare dividends, sell assets or incur debt; · the acquirer’s plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer; · the impact of the acquisition on continued licensure of the domestic insurer; · the impact on the interests of Texas policyholders; and · any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals for us and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider desirable. Restrictions on Calling Special Meeting, Cumulative Voting and Director Removal. Our bylaws includes a provision prohibiting the holders of less than a majority of the voting power represented by all of our shares issued, outstanding and entitled to be voted at a proposed meeting, from calling a special meeting of stockholders. Our charter does not provide for the cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, our charter provides that our directors may only be removed for cause and then only by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Any amendment to our charter relating to the removal of directors requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. These provisions of our bylaws and charter may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of us. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. An investment in our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC, SIPC, the Texas Department of Insurance or any other government agency. Accordingly, you should be capable of affording the loss of any investment in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 