ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business The loss of, or damage to, a data center or any other failure or interruption to our network infrastructure could materially harm our revenue and impair our ability to conduct our operations. Because virtually all of the services we provide require our customers to query a copy of our continuously updated databases and directories to obtain necessary routing, operational and marketing data, the integrity of our data centers, including network elements managed by third parties throughout the world, and the systems through which we deliver our services are essential to our business. Notably, our data centers and related systems are essential to the orderly operation of the U.S. telecommunications system because they enable carriers to ensure that telephone calls are routed to the appropriate destinations. 14 Table of Contents Our system architecture is integral to our ability to process a high volume of transactions in a timely and effective manner. Moreover, both we and our customers rely on hardware, software and other equipment developed, supported and maintained by third-party providers. We could experience failures or interruptions of our systems and services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: • damage to, or failure of, our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; • failure of, or defects in, the third-party systems, software or equipment on which we or our customers rely to access our data centers and other systems; • errors in the processing of data by our systems; • computer viruses, malware or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, distributed denial of service, penetration attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; • increased capacity demands or changes in systems requirements of our customers; • virtual hijacking of traffic destined to our systems; or • power loss, communications failures, pandemics, wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest or other man-made or natural disasters. We may not have sufficient redundant systems or back-up facilities to allow us to receive and process data if one of the foregoing events occurs. Further, increases in the scope of services that we provide increase the complexity of our network infrastructure. As the scope of services we provide expands or changes in the future, we may be required to make significant expenditures to establish new data centers from which we may provide services. Moreover, as we add customers, expand our service offerings and increase our visibility in the market we may become a more likely target of attacks similar to those listed in the bullets above. The number of electronic attacks and viruses grows significantly every year, as does the sophistication of these attacks. For example, undetected attackers are able to monitor unencrypted Internet traffic anywhere in the world and modify it before it reaches our destination, and these attackers can harm our customers by stealing identity, Internet email or IP addresses. If we are not able to react to threats and stop attackers from exploiting vulnerabilities, the integrity of our systems and our customers and trading partners may be impacted adversely. If we cannot adequately secure and protect the ability of our data centers, offices, and related systems to perform consistently at a high level and without interruptions, or if we otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations: • our reputation may be damaged, which may adversely affect our ability to market our services and attract or retain customers; • we may be subject to significant penalties or damages claims, under our contracts or otherwise, including the requirement to pay substantial penalties related to service level requirements in our contracts; • we may be required to make significant expenditures to repair or replace equipment, third-party systems or, in some cases, an entire data center, or to establish new data centers and systems from which we may provide services; • our operating expenses or capital expenditures may increase as a result of corrective efforts that we must perform; or • one or more of our significant contracts may be terminated early, or may not be renewed. Any of these consequences would adversely affect our revenue, performance and business prospects. If our security measures are breached and personally identifiable information is obtained by an unauthorized person, our service may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services. As a number of our products and services are Internet or DNS based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has increased. For example, our registry, UltraVioletTM, mobile and information service offerings may involve the storage and transmission of consumer information, such as names, addresses, email addresses and other personally identifiable information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached or our systems fail in the future as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and 15 Table of Contents as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to consumers’ data, our reputation and brands will be damaged, the adoption of our products and services could be severely limited, and we could incur significant liability, any of which may cause our business to suffer. Accordingly, we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches, including encrypting personal information, or remedy breaches after they occur, including notifying each person whose personal data may have been compromised. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of Internet or DNS-based products and services we offer as well as increase the number of countries where we operate. If an actual or perceived breach of our security measures occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation could be harmed and we could lose sales, existing and future business opportunities and customers, and potentially face costly litigation. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC represent in the aggregate a substantial portion of our revenue, are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These contracts are due to expire in June 2015 and we may not win a competitive procurement. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC, or NAPM, an industry group that represents all carriers in the United States, to provide NPAC Services are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These seven separate contracts, each of which represented between 6.0% and 11.5% of our total revenue in 2011, represented in the aggregate approximately 60.4% of our total revenue in 2011. These contracts have finite terms and are currently scheduled to expire in June 2015. NAPM has initiated a selection process for the administration of NPAC services at the expiration of the current contract. We expect that there will be significant competition as a result of this process. A contract award could be announced soon after the responses to the requests for proposal are submitted to NAPM. We may not win such a competitive procurement if another provider offers to provide the same or similar services at a lower cost. The failure to win the competitive procurement would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we win the competitive procurement, the new contracts may have different pricing structures or performance requirements than are currently in effect, which could negatively affect our operating performance and may result in additional costs and expenses and possibly lower revenues. In addition, under the current contracts, NAPM could, at any time, solicit or receive proposals from other providers to provide services that are the same as or similar to ours. These contracts can be terminated or modified in advance of their scheduled expiration date in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default of these agreements. Although these contracts do not contain cross-default provisions, conditions leading to a default by us under one of our contracts could lead to a default under others, or all seven. If these contracts are terminated or modified in a manner that is adverse to us, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A significant decline in the volume of transactions we handle could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under our contracts with NAPM, we earn revenue for NPAC Services on an annual, fixed-fee basis. However, in the event that the volume of transactions in a given year is above or below the contractually established volume range for that year, the fixed-fee may be adjusted up or down, respectively, with any such adjustment being applied to the following year’s invoices. In addition, under our contract with the Canadian LNP Consortium Inc., we earn revenue on a per transaction basis. As a result, if industry participants in the United States reduce their usage of our services in a particular year to levels below the established volume range for that year or if industry participants in Canada reduce their usage of our services from their current levels, our revenue and results of operations may suffer. For example, consolidation in the industry could result in a decline in transactions if the remaining carriers decide to handle changes to their networks internally rather than use the services that we provide. Moreover, if customer turnover among carriers in the industry stabilizes or declines, or if carriers do not compete vigorously to lure customers away from their competitors, use of our telephone number portability and other services may decline. If carriers develop internal systems to address their infrastructure needs, or if the cost of such transactions makes it impractical for a given carrier to use our services for these purposes, we may experience a reduction in transaction volumes. Finally, the trends that we believe will drive the future demand for our services, such as the emergence of IP services, growth of wireless services, consolidation in the industry, and pressure on carriers to reduce costs, may not actually result in increased demand for our existing services or for the ancillary directory services that we expect to offer, which would harm our future revenue and growth prospects. Certain of our other contracts may be terminated or modified at any time prior to their completion, which could lead to an unexpected loss of revenue and damage our reputation. In addition to our contracts with NAPM, we provide other carrier services that generate significant revenue and bolster our reputation as a premier solutions provider to communication service providers. Under various contracts, we serve as the provider of NPAC Services in Canada; operator of the .biz registry; and operator of the registry of U.S. Common Short Codes. Each of these contracts provides for early termination in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default. In addition, our contracts to serve as the North American Numbering Plan Administrator and as the National Pooling Administrator and to operate the .us registry, each of which is with the U.S. government, may be terminated by the government at will. If we fail to meet the expectations of the FCC, the U.S. Department of Commerce or our customers, as the case may be, for any reason, including for performance-related or other reasons, the customer may unilaterally terminate or modify the contracts. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to 16 Table of Contents liability, adversely affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. Further, each of the contracts discussed above establishes us as the sole provider of the particular services covered by that contract during its term. If one of these contracts was terminated, we would no longer be able to provide the services covered by that contract and could suffer a loss of prestige that would make it more difficult for us to compete for contracts to provide similar services in the future. Failure to comply with neutrality requirements could result in loss of significant contracts. Pursuant to orders and regulations of the U.S. government and provisions contained in our material contracts, we must continue to comply with certain neutrality requirements, meaning generally that we cannot favor any particular telecommunications service provider, telecommunications industry segment or technology or group of telecommunications consumers over any other telecommunications service provider, industry segment, technology or group of consumers in the conduct of our business. The FCC oversees our compliance with the neutrality requirements applicable to us in connection with some of the services we provide. We provide to the FCC and the North American Numbering Council, a federal advisory committee established by the FCC to advise and make recommendations on telephone numbering issues, regular certifications relating to our compliance with these requirements. Our ability to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject may be affected by the activities of our stockholders or lenders. For example, if the ownership of our capital stock subjects us to undue influence by parties with a vested interest in the outcome of numbering administration, the FCC could determine that we are not in compliance with our neutrality obligations. Our failure to continue to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject under applicable orders and regulations of the U.S. government and commercial contracts may result in fines, corrective measures or termination of our contracts, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulatory and statutory changes that affect us or the communications industry in general may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our domestic operations and those of many of our customers are subject to regulation by the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies. As communications technologies and the communications industry continue to evolve, the statutes governing the communications industry or the regulatory policies of the FCC may change. If this were to occur, the demand for many of our services could change in ways that we cannot predict and our revenue could decline. These risks include the ability of the federal government, most notably the FCC, to: • increase or change regulatory oversight over the services we provide; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs that are disadvantageous to the services we provide, or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that require modification of the terms of our existing contracts, including the manner in which we charge for certain of our services. For example, • in November 2005, BellSouth Corporation filed a petition with the FCC seeking changes in the way our customers are billed for services provided by us under our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC; and • after the amendment of our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC in September 2006, Telcordia Technologies, Inc. filed a petition with the FCC requesting an order that would require North American Portability Management LLC to conduct a new bidding process to appoint a provider of telephone number portability services in the United States. In response to our amendment of these contracts in January 2009, Telcordia filed another petition asking that the FCC abrogate these contracts and initiate a government managed procurement in their place. If successful, either of these petitions could result in the loss of one or more of our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC or otherwise frustrate our strategic plans. Although the FCC has not initiated a formal rulemaking process on either of the Telcordia petitions, the FCC’s Wireline Competition Bureau issued orders on March 8, 2011 and May 16, 2011 for NAPM to complete a selection process for the administration of NPAC Services at the expiration of the current contract. See “—Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC represent in the aggregate a substantial portion of our revenue, are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These contracts are due to expire in June 2015 and we may not win a competitive procurement”; • prohibit us from entering into new contracts or extending existing contracts to provide services to the communications industry based on actual or suspected violations of our neutrality requirements, business performance concerns, or other reasons; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs in a way that could cause changes to our operations or costs or the operations of our customers; • appoint, or cause others to appoint, substitute or add additional parties to perform the services that we currently provide; and 17 Table of Contents • prohibit or restrict the provision or export of new or expanded services under our contracts, or prevent the introduction of other services not under the contracts based upon restrictions within the contracts or in FCC policies. In addition, we are subject to risks arising out of the delegation of the Department of Commerce’s responsibilities for the domain name system to ICANN. Changes in the regulations or statutes to which our customers are subject could cause our customers to alter or decrease the services they purchase from us. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect future regulation or deregulation may have on our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, the value of our services and solutions could be diminished. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights. Effectively policing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. Further, because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our services and solutions that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used by third-parties who compete with our services and solutions. As we expand our business and introduce new services and solutions, there may be an increased risk of infringement and other intellectual property claims by third-parties. From time to time, we and our customers may receive claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or may become aware of certain third-party patents that may relate to our services and solutions. Additionally, some of our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement claims resulting from their use of our intellectual property embedded in their products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved, and the number of parties holding intellectual property within the communications industry, increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, the commercial success of our services and solutions may increase the risk that an infringement claim may be made against us. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us or against a customer for which we have an obligation to defend could result in costly litigation, the payment of substantial damages, and an injunction that prohibits us from continuing to offer the service or solution in question, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The market for certain of our carrier, enterprise and information services is competitive, and if we do not adapt to rapid technological change, we could lose customers or market share. We compete against well-funded providers of carrier, enterprise and information services, communications software companies and system integrators that provide systems and services used by carriers and enterprises to manage their networks and internal operations in connection with telephone number portability and other communications transactions. In addition, our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our services, and by developing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. Our ability to take advantage of opportunities in the market may require us to invest in development and incur other expenses well in advance of our ability to generate revenue from these services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way, particularly in the early stages of launching a new service. Further, we may experience delays in the development of one or more features of our solutions, which could materially reduce the potential benefits to us for providing these services. In addition, there can be no assurance that our solutions will be adopted by potential customers, or that we will be able to reach acceptable contract terms with customers to provide these services. Our failure to adapt to meet market demand in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. 18 Table of Contents Data suppliers might withdraw data from us, leading to our inability to provide products and services to our clients which could lead to decreases in our operating results. Much of the data that Information Services uses is either purchased or licensed from third parties. We compile the remainder of the data that we use from public record sources. We could suffer a material adverse effect if owners of the data we use were to withdraw the data from us. Data providers could withdraw their data from us if there is a competitive reason to do so, or if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data, or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of data. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw their data, our ability to provide products and services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. Regulatory and statutory requirements or changes in such requirements regarding privacy and data protection may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and in other jurisdictions relating to privacy and data protection. These statutory and regulatory requirements are evolving and may change significantly. Judicial and regulatory application and interpretation of these statutory and regulatory requirements are often uncertain. We may need to incur significant costs or modify our business practices and/or our services in order to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. Any such costs or changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or prospects. If we are not able to comply with applicable laws, we may be subject to significant monetary penalties and/or orders demanding that we cease alleged noncompliant activities. These or other remedies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Our failure or alleged failure to comply with privacy and data protection laws could harm our reputation, result in legal actions against us by governmental authorities or private claimants or cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or prospects. If we are unable to manage our costs, our profits could be adversely affected. Historically, sustaining our growth has placed significant demands on our management as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. For example, in 2010, our profits were negatively affected by our business realignment, including a restructuring charge of $3.8 million related to the reduction of employee headcount, CEO severance costs of $2.2 million and a long-lived asset impairment charge of $8.5 million related to our Converged Messaging Services. For us to continue to manage our expanded operations, as well as any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If our quality of service is compromised because we are unable to successfully manage our costs, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our operations do not produce the expected benefits, we may experience higher turnover in our customer base and our revenue and profits could be adversely affected. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies and changes in tax laws. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. Due to the ambiguity of tax laws and the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period to period. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities, which may negatively affect our results of operations. We must recruit and retain skilled employees to succeed in our business, and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. We believe that an integral part of our success is our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced skills in the services and solutions that we provide and who work well with our customers. In particular, we must hire and retain employees with the technical expertise and industry knowledge necessary to maintain and continue to develop our operations and must effectively manage our growing sales and marketing organization to ensure the growth of our operations. Our future success depends on the ability of our sales and marketing organization to establish direct sales channels and to develop multiple distribution channels. The employees with the skills we require are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees at all levels, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. 19 Table of Contents Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance at desired pricing levels could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Our competitors and customers may cause us to reduce the prices we charge for our services and solutions. The primary sources of pricing pressure include: • competitors offering our customers services at reduced prices, or bundling and pricing services in a manner that makes it difficult for us to compete. For example, a competing provider of Internet infrastructure services might offer its services at lower rates than we do, a competing domain name registry provider may reduce its prices for domain name registration; • customers with a significant volume of transactions may have enhanced leverage in pricing negotiations with us; and • if our prices are too high, potential customers may find it economically advantageous to handle certain functions internally instead of using our services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of transactions we handle or the number of customers we serve, by generating higher revenue from enhanced services or by reducing our costs. Our expansion into international markets may be subject to uncertainties that could increase our costs to comply with regulatory requirements in foreign jurisdictions, disrupt our operations, and require increased focus from our management. We currently provide services to customers located in various international locations such as Brazil, Taiwan and China. We intend to pursue additional international business opportunities. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: • economic and political risks in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; • differences in foreign laws and regulations, including foreign tax, intellectual property, labor and contract law, as well as unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • differing technology standards and pace of adoption; • export restrictions on encryption and other technologies; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; • increased competition by local, regional, or global companies; and • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. We may be unable to complete acquisitions, or we may undertake acquisitions that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive to our business. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past, and one of our strategies is to pursue acquisitions selectively in the future. We may not be able to locate acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution to our stockholders. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. For example, we may have difficulties in modifying TARGUSinfo’s existing accounting and internal control systems to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to which TARGUSinfo was not subject, which could adversely impact the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the combined company. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. It is also possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, or lessors, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates, and we may be required to invest significant capital and resources after acquisition to maintain or grow the businesses that we acquire. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, or long-lived assets, or 20 Table of Contents record adjustments to the purchase price that occur after the closing of the transaction, which could reduce our future reported earnings. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010 we recognized an $8.5 million non-cash long-lived asset impairment charge related to our Converged Messaging business. If we fail to successfully integrate and support the operations of the businesses we acquire, or if anticipated revenue enhancements and cost savings are not realized from these acquired businesses, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Further, at times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities, neutrality-related risks or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. The failure to discover such issues prior to such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to the Financial Market Conditions We may be unable to raise additional capital, if needed, or to raise capital on favorable terms. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If funds available under our Revolving Facility are insufficient to fund our future activities, including acquisitions, organic business ventures, or capital expenditures, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If unfavorable capital market conditions exist when we seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain capital on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations including an inability to fund new organic and inorganic growth. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock could be caused by many things, including: • our perceived prospects and the prospects of the telephone, Internet and data analytics industries in general; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • changes in general valuations for communications companies; • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; • sales of our Class A common stock by our officers, directors or principal stockholders; • sales of significant amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur; • sales of our Class A common stock due to a required divestiture under the terms of our certificate of incorporation; and • changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Each of these factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. Recently, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise enable holders of less than a majority of our voting securities to elect some of our directors; • establish a classified Board of Directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the Board of Directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • disqualify any individual from serving on our board if such individual’s service as a director would cause us to violate our neutrality requirements; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In order to comply with our neutrality requirements, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership and transfer restrictions relating to telecommunications service providers and their affiliates, which may inhibit potential acquisition bids that our stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. In order to comply with neutrality requirements imposed by the FCC in its orders and rules, no entity that qualifies as a “telecommunications service provider” or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider, as defined under the Communications Act of 1934 and FCC rules and orders, may beneficially own 5% or more of our capital stock. In general, a telecommunications service provider is an entity that offers telecommunications services to the public at large, and is, therefore, providing telecommunications services on a common carrier basis. Moreover, a party will be deemed to be an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider if that party controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a telecommunications service provider. A party is deemed to control another if that party, directly or indirectly: • owns 10% or more of the total outstanding equity of the other party; • has the power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of the directors or management of the other party; or • has the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the other party. As a result of this regulation, subject to limited exceptions, our certificate of incorporation (a) prohibits any telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider from beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding capital stock and (b) empowers our Board of Directors to determine whether any particular holder of our capital stock is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation provides that: • if one of our stockholders experiences a change in status or other event that results in the stockholder violating this restriction, or if any transfer of our stock occurs that, if effective, would violate the 5% restriction, we may elect to purchase the excess shares (i.e., the shares that cause the violation of the restriction) or require that the excess shares be sold to a third-party whose ownership will not violate the restriction; • pending a required divestiture of these excess shares, the holder whose beneficial ownership violates the 5% restriction may not vote the shares in excess of the 5% threshold; and 22 Table of Contents • if our Board of Directors, or its permitted designee, determines that a transfer, attempted transfer or other event violating this restriction has taken place, we must take whatever action we deem advisable to prevent or refuse to give effect to the transfer, including refusal to register the transfer, disregard of any vote of the shares by the prohibited owner, or the institution of proceedings to enjoin the transfer. Any person who acquires, or attempts or intends to acquire, beneficial ownership of our stock that will or may violate this restriction must notify us as provided in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, any person who becomes the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our stock must notify us and certify that such person is not a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. If a 5% stockholder fails to supply the required certification, we are authorized to treat that stockholder as a prohibited owner — meaning, among other things, that we may elect to require that the excess shares be sold. We may request additional information from our stockholders to ensure compliance with this restriction. Our board will treat any “group,” as that term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as a single person for purposes of applying the ownership and transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation restricts our ability to purchase shares of our capital stock. If a purchase by us of shares of our capital stock results in a stockholder’s percentage interest in our outstanding capital stock increasing to over the 5% threshold, such stockholder must deliver the required certification regarding such stockholder’s status as a telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. In addition, to the extent that a repurchase by us of shares of our capital stock causes any stockholder to violate the restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our certificate of incorporation, that stockholder will be subject to all of the provisions applicable to prohibited owners, including required divestiture and loss of voting rights. These restrictions and requirements may: • discourage industry participants that might have otherwise been interested in acquiring us from making a tender offer or proposing some other form of transaction that could involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; and • discourage investment in us by other investors who are telecommunications service providers or who may be deemed to be affiliates of a telecommunications service provider, which may decrease the demand for our Class A common stock and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to be lower. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 