RISK FACTORS ... In this report, and from time to time throughout the year, we share our expectations for the Company’s future performance. The following explains the critical risk factors impacting our business and reasons actual results may differ from our expectations. This discussion does not intend to be a comprehensive list and there may be other risks and factors that may have an effect on our business. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL ... We use capital primarily to fund working capital requirements, pay dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and acquire businesses. We are dependent on the use of our off-balance sheet arrangements to fund our daily non-prime originations and the secondary market to securitize and sell mortgage loans and residual interests. See Item 7, under “Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements.” We are also dependent on commercial paper issuances and/or bank lines to fund RAL participations and seasonal working capital needs. A disruption in such markets could adversely affect our access to these funds. To meet our future financing needs, we may issue additional debt or equity securities. LITIGATION ... We are involved in lawsuits in the normal course of our business related to RALs, our Peace of Mind guarantee program, electronic filing of tax returns, Express IRAs, losses incurred by customers in their investment accounts, mortgage lending activities and other matters. Adverse outcomes related to litigation could result in substantial damages and could adversely affect our results of operations. Negative public opinion can also result from our actual or alleged conduct in such claims, possibly damaging our reputation and adversely affecting the market price of our stock. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional information. PRIVACY OF CLIENT INFORMATION ... We manage highly sensitive client information in all of our operating segments, which is regulated by law. Problems with the safeguarding and proper use of this information could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. INTERNAL CONTROL CERTIFICATION ... We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in accordance with various SEC rules governing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“SOX 404”). SOX 404 requires us to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting annually, and obtain an opinion on these controls from our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. We may encounter problems or delays in completing the review and evaluation, the implementation of improvements and the receipt of a positive attestation, or any attestation at all, by our independent auditors. Additionally, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting may identify deficiencies that need to be addressed in our internal controls over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. As a part of Management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting as of April 30, 2005, a material weakness was identified in the Company’s accounting for income taxes. The material weakness in internal controls resulted from insufficient resources in the corporate tax function to accurately identify, evaluate and report, in a timely manner, non-routine and complex transactions. The Company also determined that it had not completed the requisite historical analysis and related reconciliations to ensure tax balances were appropriately stated prior to the completion of the Company’s internal control activities. These deficiencies resulted in errors in the Company’s accounting for income taxes. These errors were corrected prior to issuance of the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended April 30, 2005. As a result, KPMG has issued an adverse opinion with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting and their report is included in Item 8. Should we, or our independent auditors, determine in future periods that we have additional material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, our results of 12 Table of Contents H&R BLOCK 2005 Form 10K operations or financial condition may be adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline. OPERATIONAL RISK ... There is a risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes or systems, theft or fraud. These can occur in many forms including, among others, errors, business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of or misconduct by our employees or those contracted to perform services for us, and vendors that do not perform in accordance with their contractual agreements. These events can potentially result in financial losses or other damages. We rely on internal and external information and technological systems to manage our operations and are exposed to risk of loss resulting from breaches in the security, or other failures of these systems. Replacement of our major operational systems could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct our core business operations and increase our risk of loss resulting from disruptions of normal operating processes and procedures that may occur during the implementation of new information and transaction systems. TAX SERVICES COMPETITIVE POSITION ... Increased competition for tax preparation clients in our retail offices, online and software channels could adversely affect our current market share and limit our ability to grow our client base. See clients served statistics included in Item 7, under “Tax Services.” REFUND ANTICIPATION LOANS ... Changes in government regulation related to RALs could adversely affect our ability to offer RALs or our ability to purchase participation interests. Changes in IRS practices could adversely affect our ability to use the IRS debt indicator to limit our bad debt exposure. Changes in any of these, as well as possible litigation related to RALs, may adversely affect our results of operations. See discussion of RAL litigation in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” MORTGAGE SERVICES COMPETITIVE POSITION ... The majority of our mortgage loan applications are submitted through a network of brokers who have relationships with many other mortgage lenders. Unfavorable changes in our pricing, service or other factors could result in a decline in our mortgage origination volume. A decline in our servicer ratings could adversely affect our pricing and origination volume. Increased competition among mortgage lenders can also result in a decline in coupon rates offered to our borrowers, which in turn lowers margins and could adversely affect our gains on sales of mortgage loans. MARKET RISKS ... Our day-to-day operating activities of originating and selling mortgage loans have many aspects of interest rate risk. Additionally, the valuation of our retained residual interests and mortgage servicing rights includes many estimates and assumptions made by management surrounding interest rates, prepayment speeds and credit losses. Variation in interest rates or the factors underlying our assumptions could affect our results of operations. See Item 7A, under “Mortgage Services,” for discussion of interest rate risk, and Item 7, under “Critical Accounting Policies,” for discussion of our valuation methodology. LEGISLATION AND REGULATION ... Several states and cities are considering or have passed laws, regulations or ordinances aimed at curbing predatory lending and servicing practices. The federal government is also considering legislative and regulatory proposals in this regard. In general, these proposals involve lowering the existing federal HOEPA thresholds for defining a “high-cost” loan and establishing enhanced protections and remedies for borrowers who receive such loans. If unfavorable laws and regulations are passed, it could restrict our ability to originate loans. If rating agencies refuse to rate our loans, loan buyers may not want to purchase loans labeled as “high-cost,” and it could restrict our ability to sell our loans in the secondary market. Accordingly, all of these items could adversely affect our results of operations. In 2002, the Federal Reserve Board adopted changes to Regulation C promulgated under the HMDA. Among other things, the new regulations require lenders to report pricing data on loans with annual percentage rates that exceed the yield on treasury bills with comparable maturities by 3%. The expanded reporting takes effect in 2004 for reports filed in 2005. We anticipate that a majority of our loans would be subject to the expanded reporting requirements. The expanded reporting does not provide for additional loan information such as credit risk, debt-to-income ratio, loan-to-value ratio, documentation level or other salient loan features. However, reported information may lead to increased litigation as the information could be misinterpreted by third parties and could adversely affect our results of operations. COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK ... Derivative instruments involve counterparty credit risk, which is the risk that a counterparty may fail to perform on its contractual obligations. We manage this risk through the use of a policy that includes credit standard guidelines, counterparty diversification, monitoring of counterparty financial condition, use of master netting agreements with counterparties, and exposure limits based on counterparty credit, exposure amount and management risk tolerance. The policy is reviewed on an annual basis and as conditions warrant. See Item 7A, under “Mortgage Services,” and Item 8, note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of our derivative instruments. 13 Table of Contents H&R BLOCK 2005 Form 10K REAL ESTATE MARKET ... Our residual interests and beneficial interest in Trusts are secured by mortgage loans, which are in turn secured by residential real estate. Any material decline in real estate values would likely result in higher delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. Additionally, a significant portion of the mortgage loans we originate or service is secured by properties in California. A decline in the economy or the residential real estate market values, or the occurrence of a natural disaster not covered by standard homeowners’ insurance policies, such as an earthquake, hurricane or wildfire, could decrease the value of mortgaged properties in California. Any sustained period of increased delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could harm our ability to originate and sell loans, the prices we receive on our loans, or the values of our mortgage servicing rights and residual interests in securitizations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. BUSINESS SERVICES ALTERNATIVE PRACTICE STRUCTURE WITH M&P ... Our relationship with M&P requires us to comply with applicable auditor independence rules and requirements. In addition, our relationship with M&P closely links our RSM McGladrey brand with M&P. If M&P were to encounter problems concerning its independence as a result of its relationship with us or if significant litigation arose concerning M&P or its services, our brand reputation and our ability to realize the mutual benefits of our relationship, such as the ability to attract and retain quality professionals, could be impaired. INVESTMENT SERVICES REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT ... The broker-dealer industry has recently come under increased scrutiny by federal and state regulators and self-regulatory agencies and, as a result, more focus has been placed on compliance issues. If we do not comply with these regulations, it could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to recruit and retain qualified advisors. Negative public opinion about our industry could damage our reputation even if we are in compliance with such regulations. INTEGRATION INTO THE H&R BLOCK BRAND ... We are working to foster an advice-based relationship with our tax clients through our retail tax office network. This advice-based relationship is key to the integration of Investment Services into the H&R Block brand and deepening our current client relationships. If we are unable to successfully integrate, it may significantly impact our ability to differentiate our business from other tax providers and grow our client base. RECRUITING AND RETENTION OF FINANCIAL ADVISORS ... Attracting and retaining experienced financial advisors is extremely competitive in the investment industry. Additionally, in this industry, clients tend to follow their advisors, regardless of their affiliated investment firm. The inability to recruit and retain qualified and productive advisors, may adversely affect our results of operations. RECURRING OPERATING LOSSES ... Continuing operating losses in our Investment Services segment may impact the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets. Such losses could also necessitate additional capital contributions to comply with regulatory requirements. The inability to operate this segment in a profitable manner may adversely affect our results of operations. AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION ... Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available, free of charge, through our website at www.hrblock.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of the following corporate governance documents are posted on our website: (1) The Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of H&R Block, Inc., (2) The Amended and Restated Bylaws of H&R Block, Inc., (3) The H&R Block, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines, (4) the H&R Block, Inc. Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, (5) the H&R Block, Inc. Audit Committee Charter, (6) the H&R Block, Inc. Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, and (7) the H&R Block, Inc. Compensation Committee Charter. If you would like a printed copy of any of these corporate governance documents, please send your request to the Office of the Secretary, H&R Block, Inc., 4400 Main Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64111. Information contained on our website does not constitute any part of this report. 14 Table of Contents H&R BLOCK 2005 Form 10K 