Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and a limited number of restaurants upon which to evaluate our company, and you should not rely on our history as an indication of our future results. We currently operate 21 restaurants, half of which have operated for less than three years. Consequently, the results we have achieved to date with a relatively small number of restaurants may not be indicative of those restaurants’ long-term performance or the potential performance of new restaurants. A number of factors historically have affected and are likely to continue to affect our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales, including the following: • our ability to execute effectively our business strategy; • our ability to successfully select and secure sites for our Kona Grill concept; • the operating performance of new and existing restaurants; • competition in our markets; • consumer trends; and • changes in political or economic conditions. Our average unit volume and same-store sales may not increase at rates achieved over recent periods. Two of our restaurants opened within the last three years have average unit volumes significantly below the average unit volume of our comparable restaurant base. In addition, we closed our restaurant in Naples, Florida in September 2008 due to low sales volume. Changes in our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We have a history of losses and we may never achieve profitability. We incurred net losses during each of the last four years. We forecast that we will incur net losses for at least the next year, and possibly longer. We expect that our expenses for the foreseeable future will increase in order to continue the development of new restaurants. We may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that our expansion efforts do not result in proportionate increases in our sales, which would further increase our losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. We may require additional capital in the future as a result of changes in our restaurant operations or growth plans, and our inability to raise such capital could harm our operations and restrict our growth. Changes in our restaurant operations, acceleration of our restaurant expansion plans, lower than anticipated restaurant sales, increased food or labor costs, increased property expenses, or other events, including those described in this report, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our restaurant growth plans as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available, will be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants, and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. We require near-term funding in order to satisfy certain of our current lease and construction obligations for planned new restaurant openings. Our capital requirements, including development costs related to the opening of new restaurants, have historically been significant. Our future cash requirements and the adequacy of available funds depends on many factors, including the operating performance of our restaurants, the pace of expansion, real estate markets, site locations, the nature of the arrangements negotiated with landlords, and the credit market environment. Based upon our current growth plan, our current cash and investment balances, coupled with anticipated cash flow generated from operations, will not be sufficient to fund planned new restaurant openings during 2009. We anticipate that we will require debt or equity financing in an amount not less than $3 million, inclusive of funds raised in the note and warrant offering completed during March 2009, in order to meet existing lease and construction obligations for planned new restaurants. If we are unable to secure such funding, we may be required to terminate existing leases or delay, scale back, or cease construction of our planned new restaurant facilities, which could subject us to penalties and materially and adversely impact our ability to grow our business. 12 Table of Contents Recent disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of funding, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Our growth strategy depends upon the capital markets to expand our operations. Recent disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to borrow money from banks or other potential lenders. Our access to funds under any potential credit facility will depend on the ability of the banks or other lenders to commit to lend funds to us. In the event we enter into a credit facility with banks or other lenders, those parties may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital. Any long-term disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business can be arranged. Such measures could result in deferring capital expenditures or altering our growth strategy to reduce the opening of new restaurants. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly due to our limited number of existing restaurants and the expenses required to open new restaurants. We currently operate 21 restaurants, three of which opened during 2008, and we expect to open four restaurants during 2009. The capital resources required to develop each new restaurant are significant. We estimate that the cost of opening a new Kona Grill restaurant currently ranges from $3.2 million to $4.5 million, exclusive of landlord tenant improvement allowances and preopening expenses and assuming that we do not purchase the underlying real estate. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site and size of the restaurant and conditions in the local real estate and employment markets. The combination of our relatively small number of existing restaurants, the significant investment associated with each new restaurant, and the average unit volumes of our new restaurants may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly, and poor operating results at any one restaurant or a delay or cancellation in the planned opening of a restaurant could materially affect our company, making the investment risks related to any one location much larger than those associated with most other restaurant chains. Unexpected expenses and low market acceptance of our restaurant concept could adversely affect the profitability of restaurants that we open in new markets. As part of our expansion strategy, we plan to open restaurants in markets in which we have no prior operating experience and in which our brand may not be well-known. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns than restaurants in our existing markets. As a result, we may incur costs related to the opening, operation, and promotion of these new restaurants that are greater than those incurred in existing markets. As a result of these factors, sales at restaurants opening in new markets may take longer to achieve average unit volumes comparable with our existing restaurants, if at all, which would adversely affect the profitability of those new restaurants. Our ability to open new restaurants on schedule in accordance with our projected growth rate may be adversely affected by delays or problems associated with securing suitable restaurant locations and leases and by other factors, some of which are beyond our control and the timing of which is difficult to forecast accurately. Due in part to the unique nature of each proposed restaurant location, we cannot predict the timing or ultimate success of our site selection process. Our ability to open new restaurants on schedule depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the availability and cost of suitable restaurant locations for development and our ability to compete successfully for those locations; • the availability of adequate financing; 13 Table of Contents • the timing of delivery of leased premises from our landlords so we can commence our build-out construction activities; • construction and development costs; • labor shortages or disputes experienced by our landlords or outside contractors; • unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; • our ability to secure governmental approvals and permits, including liquor licenses, construction permits, and occupancy permits; • weather conditions or natural disasters; and • general economic conditions. Our growth may strain our infrastructure and resources, which could slow our development of new restaurants and adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We plan to open four restaurants in 2009 which would result in 20% unit growth. This expansion and our future growth will increase demands on our management team, restaurant management systems and resources, financial controls, and information systems. These increased demands may adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. If we fail to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to meet our expansion objectives, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our restaurants are subject to natural disasters and other events which are beyond our control and for which we may not be able to obtain insurance at reasonable rates. We endeavor to insure our restaurants against wind, flood, and other disasters, but we may not be able to obtain insurance for these types of events for all of our restaurants at reasonable rates. A devastating natural disaster or other event in the vicinity of one of our restaurants could result in substantial losses and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Our expansion in existing markets may cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. Our growth strategy includes opening new restaurants in our existing markets. We may be unable to attract enough guests to our new restaurants for them to operate profitably. In addition, guests to our new restaurants may be former guests of one of our existing restaurants in that market, which may reduce guest visits and sales at those existing restaurants, adversely affecting our results of operations. If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, we may experience short-term supply shortages and increased food and beverage costs. We currently depend on U.S. Foodservice, a national food distribution service company, and other regional distributors to provide food and beverage products to all of our restaurants. If U.S. Foodservice or other distributors or suppliers cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to secure an alternative supply source. In addition, any delay in replacing our suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants, which also could adversely affect our business. 14 Table of Contents Our failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, or trade secrets could negatively affect our competitive position and the value of the Kona Grill brand. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Kona Grill name. Although Kona Grill is a federally registered trademark, our trademarks and service marks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. Alternatively, third parties may attempt to cause us to change our name or not operate in a certain geographic region if our name is confusingly similar to their name. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts, and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our executives, key personnel, or suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. We are dependent upon high levels of consumer traffic at the sites where our restaurants are located and any adverse change in consumer activity could negatively affect our restaurant sales and may require us to record an impairment charge for restaurants performing below expectations. Our restaurants are primarily located in high-activity areas such as retail centers, shopping malls, and lifestyle centers. We depend on high consumer traffic rates at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. In general, such visit frequencies are significantly affected by many factors, including national, regional, or local economic conditions, anchor tenants closing in retail centers or shopping malls in which we operate, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, higher frequency of online shopping, changes in discretionary consumer spending, increasing gasoline prices, or otherwise, our unit volumes could decline and adversely affect our results of operations, including recording an impairment charge for restaurants that are performing below expectations. During 2008, we recorded impairment charges for our Naples, Florida restaurant that was closed during September 2008 and for our low sales volume restaurant in Lincolnshire, Illinois. We may be required to record impairment charges in future quarters as a result of the decline in value of our investments in auction rate securities. We hold investments in auction rate securities which are secured by student loans. While the maturity dates of our auction rate securities range from 2029 to 2046, liquidity for these securities has historically been provided by an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, generally every 28 days. The recent uncertainties in the credit markets have adversely affected the auction market for these types of securities and auctions for these securities have failed to settle on their respective settlement dates. Consequently, our investments in auction rate securities are not currently liquid and we will not be able to redeem these securities until a future auction of these investments is successful, the issuer refinances the underlying debt, or our investment provider purchases the securities pursuant to the settlement agreement discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Estimating the fair value of auction rate securities requires numerous assumptions such as assessments of the underlying structure of each security, expected cash flows, credit ratings, and other relevant factors. These assumptions, assessments and the interpretations of relevant market data are subject to uncertainties, are difficult to predict and require significant judgment. The use of different assumptions, applying different judgment to inherently subjective matters and changes in future market conditions could result in significantly different estimates of fair value. There is no assurance as to when the market for auction rate securities will stabilize. The fair value of our auction rate securities could change significantly based upon market conditions and continued uncertainties in the credit markets. If these uncertainties continue or if our securities experience credit rating downgrades or changes in the rates of default on the underlying assets, we may incur additional impairment on our auction rate securities portfolio. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry Negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef, seafood, poultry, or produce generally, or shifts in consumer tastes, could negatively impact the popularity of our restaurants, our sales, and our results of operations. The popularity of our restaurants in general, and our menu offerings in particular, are key factors to the success of our operations. Negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury, or other health concerns, whether related to one of our restaurants or to the beef, seafood, poultry, or produce industries in general (such as negative publicity concerning salmonella, e-coli, Hepatitis A, mercury poisoning and other food-borne illnesses), or operating problems related to one or more of our restaurants, could make our brand and menu offerings less appealing to consumers. In addition, other shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food we offer, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make our restaurants less appealing and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be harmed and we will not achieve profitability. Increases in the prices of, or reductions in the availability of, seafood, poultry, beef, or produce could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in seafood, poultry, beef, or produce costs. The supply and price of these items is more volatile than other types of food. The type, variety, quality, and price of seafood, poultry, beef, and produce is subject to factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, transportation costs, governmental regulation, availability, and seasonality, each of which may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply. We currently do not purchase seafood, poultry, beef, or produce pursuant to long-term contracts or use financial management strategies to reduce our exposure to price fluctuations. Changes in the price or availability of certain types of seafood, poultry, beef, or produce could affect our ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to our guests and could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations. Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase operating costs, restrict our growth, or require us to suspend operations. Each of our restaurants must obtain licenses from regulatory authorities allowing it to sell liquor, beer, and wine, and each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local health authorities. Each restaurant’s liquor license must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended at any time for cause, including violation by us or our employees of any laws and regulations relating to the minimum drinking age, over serving, advertising, wholesale purchasing, and inventory control. Each restaurant is also subject to local health inspections. Failure to pass one or multiple inspections may result in temporary or permanent suspension of operations and could significantly impact our reputation. In certain states, including states where we have existing restaurants or where we plan to open restaurants in the near term, the number of liquor licenses available is limited and licenses are traded at market prices. Liquor, beer, and wine sales comprise a significant portion of our sales, representing approximately 32% of our sales during 2008. Therefore, if we are unable to maintain our existing licenses, or if we choose to open a restaurant in those states, the cost of a new license could be significant. Obtaining and maintaining licenses is an important component of each of our restaurant’s operations, and the failure to obtain or maintain food and liquor licenses and other required licenses, permits, and approvals would adversely impact our restaurants and our growth strategy. In addition, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to reconfigure our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. Non-compliance with this law and related laws enacted at the state or local level could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages in litigation. 16 Table of Contents Litigation concerning our food quality, our employment practices, liquor liability, and other issues could result in significant expenses to us and could divert resources from our operations. Like other restaurants, we may receive complaints or litigation from, and potential liability to, our guests involving food-borne illness or injury or other operational issues. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from, and potential liability to, our former, existing, or prospective employees involving our restaurant employment practices and procedures. In addition, we are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages, under “dram shop” statutes. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, our sales may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such claims. Such claims may also be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and adversely affect our business. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant general managers and kitchen managers, necessary to continue our operations and keep pace with our growth. This ability is especially critical to our company because of our relatively small number of existing restaurants and our current development plans. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our business and growth strategy could be adversely affected. Competition for qualified restaurant employees in our current or prospective markets could require us to pay higher wages and benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid rates based upon the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips for a significant portion of their income. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could increase our labor costs. We may be unable to increase our prices proportionately in order to pass these increased costs on to our guests, in which case our operating margins would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including but not limited to the following: • actual or anticipated variations in comparable restaurant sales or operating results; whether in our operations or those of our competitors; • changes in the consumer spending environment or general economic conditions; • changes in the market valuations of other companies in the restaurant industry; • recruitment or departure of key restaurant operations or management personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock; and • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our restaurant operations or lawsuits filed against us. Due to the volatility of our stock price, we also may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business as well as depress the price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Our current principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval. Investors affiliated with our Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, Marcus Jundt, together potentially own approximately 26% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. In addition, three of our directors (including Mr. Jundt) are affiliated with Mr. Jundt. As a result, Mr. Jundt has significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not our other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. The large number of shares eligible for public sale and registered for resale could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding 6,511,991 shares of common stock, all of which shares are either freely tradable or otherwise eligible for sale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have 1,500,000 shares reserved for future issuance under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans, of which approximately 280,000 shares have been issued. We have filed registration statements under the securities laws to register the common stock to be issued under these plans. As a result, shares issued under these plans will be freely tradable without restriction unless acquired by affiliates of our company, who will be subject to the volume and other limitations of Rule 144. We have also filed a registration statement covering the resale of 950,000 shares held by investors in our private placement transaction during November 2007 and one other stockholder. We have agreed to keep this registration effective for a period of time following the private transaction. As a result, the existence of the registration statement may have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. Our stockholders’ rights plan may adversely affect existing stockholders. On May 27, 2008, we adopted a stockholder rights plan that may have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Under the rights plan, we issued a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each share of our common stock held by stockholders of record on May 28, 2008. Each right entitles stockholders to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of our newly created Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $55 per one one-thousandth of a share. The rights expire on the earlier of May 28, 2011 or May 31, 2009 if our stockholders do not approve the adoption of the corresponding rights agreement by that date, unless the rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by us. In general, subject to certain limited exceptions, the stock purchase rights become exercisable when a person or group acquires 20% or more of our common stock or a tender offer or exchange offer for 20% or more of our common stock is announced or commenced. After any such event, each right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right’s then-current exercise price, a number of shares of our common stock having a market value of twice the exercise price. The rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. 18 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions on our maintaining a classified Board of Directors and limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on the voting of “control shares” and on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce accurate financial statements and on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have furnished a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2008. To achieve compliance with Section 404, we engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting which was both challenging and time-consuming. Subject to proposed changes by the SEC, our independent auditors will be required to issue a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2009. Despite our efforts, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent auditors’, conclusions with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 in the future. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent auditors will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Since we do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, holders of our common stock may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to reinvest any earnings to finance our restaurant operations and growth plans. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents 