ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to our business The loss of, or damage to, a data center or any other failure or interruption to our network infrastructure could materially harm our revenue and impair our ability to conduct our operations. Because virtually all of the services we provide require our customers to query a copy of our continuously updated databases and directories to obtain necessary routing, operational and marketing data, the integrity of our data centers, including network elements managed by third parties throughout the world, and the systems through which we deliver our services are essential to our business. Notably, certain of our data centers and related systems are essential to the orderly operation of the U.S. telecommunications system because they enable carriers to ensure that telephone calls are routed to the appropriate destinations. Our system architecture is integral to our ability to process a high volume of transactions in a timely and effective manner. Moreover, both we and our customers rely on hardware, software and other equipment developed, supported and maintained by third-party providers. We could experience failures or interruptions of our systems and services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of, for example: • damage to, or failure of, our computer software or hardware or our connections to, and outsourced service arrangements with, third parties; • failure of, or defects in, the third-party systems, software or equipment on which we or our customers rely to access our data centers and other systems; • errors in the processing of data by our systems; • computer viruses, malware or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, distributed denial of service, or DDoS, penetration attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; • increased capacity demands or changes in systems requirements of our customers; • virtual hijacking of traffic destined to our systems; • power loss, communications failures, pandemics, wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest or other man-made or natural disasters; and • successful DDoS attacks. We may not have sufficient redundant systems or back-up facilities to allow us to receive and process data if one of the foregoing events occurs. Further, increases in the scope of services that we provide increase the complexity of our network infrastructure. As the scope of services we provide expands or changes in the future, we may be required to make significant expenditures to establish new data centers and acquire additional network capacity from which we may provide services. Moreover, as we add customers, expand our service offerings and increase our visibility in the market we may become a more likely target of attacks similar to those listed in the bullets above. The number of electronic attacks and viruses grows significantly every year, as does the sophistication of these attacks. For example, undetected attackers may be able to monitor unencrypted Internet traffic anywhere in the world and modify it before it reaches our destination, and these attackers may harm our customers by stealing personal or proprietary information, Internet email or IP addresses. If we are not able to react to threats quickly and effectively and stop attackers from exploiting vulnerabilities or circumventing our security measures, the integrity of our systems and networks, and those of our customers and trading partners, may be adversely affected. If we cannot adequately secure and protect the ability of our data centers, offices, networks and related systems to perform consistently at a high level and without interruptions, or if we otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations: • our reputation may be damaged, which may adversely affect our ability to market our services and attract or retain customers; • we may be subject to significant penalties or damages claims, under our contracts or otherwise; 18 Table of Contents • we may be required to make significant expenditures to repair or replace equipment, third-party systems or an entire data center, to establish new data centers and systems from which we may provide services or to take other required corrective action; or • one or more of our significant contracts may be terminated early, or may not be renewed. Any of these consequences would adversely affect our revenue, performance and business prospects. If our security measures are breached and personally identifiable information is obtained by an unauthorized person, we may be subject to litigation and our services may also be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services. Many of our products and services, such as our registry, UltraVioletTM, mobile and information service offerings may involve the storage and transmission of consumer information, such as names, addresses, email addresses and other personally identifiable information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If someone obtains unauthorized access to consumers’ data, as a result of third-party action, technical malfunctions, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, our reputation, brands and competitive position will be damaged, the adoption of our products and services could be severely limited, and we could incur costly litigation and significant liability, any of which may cause our business to suffer. Accordingly, we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches, including encrypting personal information, or remedy breaches after they occur, including notifying each person whose personal data may have been compromised. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the scale and scope of information services we offer and the number of Internet or DNS-based products and services we offer, and increase the number of countries in which we operate. Even a perceived breach of our security measures could damage the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation, and we could lose sales, existing and future business opportunities and customers, and potentially face costly litigation. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC represent in the aggregate a substantial portion of our revenue, are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These contracts are due to expire in June 2015 and we may not win a competitive procurement. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC, or NAPM, an industry group that represents all carriers in the United States, to provide NPAC Services are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These seven separate contracts, each of which represented between 4.5% and 9.2% of our total revenue in 2012, represented in the aggregate approximately 49.4% of our total revenue in 2012. These contracts have finite terms and are currently scheduled to expire in June 2015. NAPM has initiated a selection process for the administration of NPAC services at the expiration of the current contract. The FCC Wireline Competition Bureau has released a Request for Proposal, or RFP. The selection timeline published in the RFP anticipates that the NAPM will make a recommendation to the FCC in August 2013 with the FCC approval of the recommendation to be completed in September 2013. These dates are subject to change. We expect that there will be significant competition as a result of this process. We may not win this competitive procurement if another provider offers to provide the same or similar services at a lower cost. The failure to win the competitive procurement would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we win the competitive procurement, the new contracts may have different pricing structures or performance requirements than are currently in effect, which could negatively affect our operating performance and may result in additional costs and expenses and possibly lower revenues. In addition, under our current contracts, NAPM could, at any time, solicit or receive proposals from other providers to provide services that are the same as or similar to ours. These contracts can be terminated or modified in advance of their scheduled expiration date in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default 19 Table of Contents of these agreements. Although these contracts do not contain cross-default provisions, conditions leading to a default by us under one of our contracts could lead to a default under others, or all seven. If these contracts are terminated or modified in a manner that is adverse to us, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. A significant decline in the volume of transactions we handle could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under our contracts with NAPM, we earn revenue for NPAC Services on an annual, fixed-fee basis. However, in the event that the volume of transactions in a given year is above or below the contractually established volume range for that year, the fixed-fee may be adjusted up or down, respectively, with any such adjustment being applied to the following year’s invoices. In addition, under our contract with the Canadian LNP Consortium Inc., we earn revenue on a per transaction basis. As a result, if industry participants in the United States reduce their usage of our services in a particular year to levels below the established volume range for that year or if industry participants in Canada reduce their usage of our services from their current levels, our revenue and results of operations may suffer. For example, consolidation in the industry could result in a decline in transactions if the remaining carriers decide to handle changes to their networks internally rather than use the services that we provide. Moreover, if customer turnover among carriers in the industry stabilizes or declines, or if carriers do not compete vigorously to lure customers away from their competitors, use of our telephone number portability and other services may decline. If carriers develop internal systems to address their infrastructure needs, or if the cost of such transactions makes it impractical for a given carrier to use our services for these purposes, we may experience a reduction in transaction volumes. Carriers might be able to charge consumers directly for our services, which could also have an adverse impact on transaction volumes. Finally, the trends that we believe will drive the future demand for our services, such as the emergence of IP services, growth of wireless services, consolidation in the industry, and pressure on carriers to reduce costs, may not actually result in increased demand for our existing services or for the ancillary directory services that we expect to offer, which would harm our future revenue and growth prospects. Certain of our other contracts may be terminated or modified at any time prior to their completion, which could lead to an unexpected loss of revenue and damage our reputation. In addition to our contracts with NAPM, we provide other services that generate revenue and bolster our reputation as a premier data services, infrastructure, and solutions provider to the communications sector, other major enterprises in a wide variety of sectors, trade associations, and government agencies. For example, we serve as the provider of NPAC Services in Canada; as operator of the .biz registry under contract with ICANN and the .us registry under contract with the Department of Commerce; as operator of the registry of U.S. Common Short Codes; as the provider of DNS services to a wide variety of major corporations, and as a provider of data services to major retailers and marketers. Each of these contracts provides for early termination in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default. In addition, our contracts to serve as the North American Numbering Plan Administrator and as the National Pooling Administrator and to operate the .us registry, each of which is with the U.S. government, may be terminated by the government at will. If we fail to meet the expectations of the FCC, the U.S. Department of Commerce or any of our other major customers for any reason, including for performance-related or other reasons, the customers may unilaterally terminate or modify the contracts. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability, adversely affect our operating performance and lead to an unexpected loss of revenue. Further, the loss or significant modification of a major contract could cause us to suffer a loss of reputation that would make it more difficult for us to compete for contracts to provide similar services in the future. Failure to comply with neutrality requirements could result in loss of significant contracts. Pursuant to orders and regulations of the U.S. government and provisions contained in our material contracts, we must continue to comply with certain neutrality requirements, meaning generally that we cannot favor any particular telecommunications service provider, telecommunications industry segment or technology or 20 Table of Contents group of telecommunications consumers over any other telecommunications service provider, industry segment, technology or group of consumers in the conduct of our business. The FCC oversees our compliance with the neutrality requirements applicable to us in connection with some of the services we provide. We provide to the FCC and the North American Numbering Council, a federal advisory committee established by the FCC to advise and make recommendations on telephone numbering issues, regular certifications relating to our compliance with these requirements. Our ability to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject may be affected by the activities of our stockholders or lenders. For example, if the ownership of our capital stock subjects us to undue influence by parties with a vested interest in the outcome of numbering administration, the FCC could determine that we are not in compliance with our neutrality obligations. Our failure to continue to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject under applicable orders and regulations of the U.S. government and commercial contracts may result in fines, corrective measures, termination of our contracts, or exclusion from bidding on future contracts, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulatory and statutory changes that affect us or the communications industry in general may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Certain of our domestic operations and many of our customers’ operations are subject to regulation by the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies. As communications technologies and the communications industry continue to evolve, the statutes governing the communications industry or the regulatory policies of the FCC may change. If this were to occur, the demand for many of our services could change in ways that we cannot predict and our revenue could decline. These risks include the ability of the federal government, most notably the FCC and the Department of Commerce, to: • increase or change regulatory oversight over services we provide; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs in ways that are disadvantageous to the services we provide, or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that require modification of the terms of our existing contracts or contracts like the NPAC or .us registry that are subject to a competitive procurement process, including the manner in which we charge for certain of our services. For example, • in November 2005 and in 2010, major carriers filed petitions with the FCC seeking changes in the way our customers are billed for services provided by us under our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC; Verizon Corporation filed a similar petition with the FCC in May 2011, and • after the amendment of our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC in September 2006, Telcordia Technologies, Inc. filed a petition with the FCC requesting an order that would require North American Portability Management LLC to conduct a new bidding process to appoint a provider of telephone number portability services in the United States. In response to our amendment of these contracts in January 2009, Telcordia filed another petition asking that the FCC abrogate these contracts and initiate a government managed procurement in their place. If successful, either of these petitions could result in the loss of one or more of our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC or otherwise frustrate our strategic plans. Although the FCC has not initiated a formal rulemaking process on either of the Telcordia petitions, the FCC’s Wireline Competition Bureau issued orders on March 8, 2011 and May 16, 2011 for NAPM to complete a selection process for the administration of NPAC Services at the expiration of the current contracts. See “—Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC represent in the aggregate a substantial portion of our revenue, are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These contracts are due to expire in June 2015 and we may not win a competitive procurement”; 21 Table of Contents • prohibit us from entering into new contracts or extending existing contracts to provide services to the communications industry based on actual or suspected violations of our neutrality requirements, business performance concerns, or other reasons; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs in a way that could cause changes to our operations or costs or the operations of our customers (e.g., regulatory changes to support migration of public switched telephone network to IP Carrier Interconnect); • appoint, or cause others to appoint, substitute or add additional parties to perform the services that we currently provide including abrogation of our contracts to provide NPAC Services; and • prohibit or restrict the provision or export of new or expanded services under our contracts, or prevent the introduction of other services not under the contracts based upon restrictions within the contracts or in FCC policies. In addition, we are subject to risks arising out of the delegation of the Department of Commerce’s responsibilities for the domain name system to ICANN. Changes in the regulations or statutes to which our customers are subject could cause our customers to alter or decrease the services they purchase from us. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation, deregulation or litigation designed to delay or prevent the introduction of new top-level domains might occur or the effect future regulation or deregulation may have on our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, the value of our services and solutions could be diminished. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our proprietary rights and our ability to avoid infringing on the proprietary rights of others. While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights. Effectively policing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. Further, because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our services and solutions that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used by third-parties who compete with our services and solutions. As we expand our business and introduce new services and solutions, there may be an increased risk of infringement and other intellectual property claims by third-parties. From time to time, we and our customers may receive claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or may become aware of certain third-party patents that may relate to our services and solutions. Additionally, some of our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement claims resulting from their use of our intellectual property embedded in their products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved, and the number of parties holding intellectual property within the communications industry, increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, the commercial success of our services and solutions may increase the risk that an infringement claim may be made against us. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us or against a customer for which we have an obligation to defend could result in costly litigation, the payment of substantial damages, and an injunction that prohibits us from continuing to offer the service or solution in question, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents The market for our carrier, enterprise and information services is competitive, and if we do not adapt to rapid technological change, we could lose customers or market share. We compete against well-funded providers of carrier, enterprise and information services, communications software companies and system integrators that provide systems and services used by carriers and enterprises to manage their networks and internal operations in connection with telephone number portability and other communications transactions. In addition, our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our services, and by developing new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs. Our ability to take advantage of opportunities in the market may require us to invest in development and incur other expenses well in advance of our ability to generate revenue from these services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way, particularly in the early stages of launching a new service. Further, we may experience delays in the development of one or more features of our solutions, which could materially reduce the potential benefits to us for providing these services. In addition, there can be no assurance that our solutions will be adopted by potential customers, or that we will be able to reach acceptable contract terms with customers to provide these services. Our failure to adapt to meet market demand in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. If we are not able to obtain the data required to provide our information services, or we obtain inaccurate data, our operating results could be adversely affected. Much of the data that we use in connection with our Information Services segment is purchased or licensed from third parties, obtained from public record sources or provided to us as part of a broader business relationship with a customer. If we are not able to obtain this data on favorable economic terms or otherwise, or if the data we obtain is inaccurate, our ability to provide information services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which could result in decreased revenues, net income and earnings per share. Regulatory and statutory requirements, changes in requirements regarding privacy and data protection or public perceptions of data usage may increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our business operations are subject to a variety of complex privacy and data protection laws and regulations in the United States and in other jurisdictions. These statutory and regulatory requirements are evolving and may change significantly. Judicial and regulatory application and interpretation of these statutory and regulatory requirements are often uncertain. In addition, data usage both by governments and corporations is currently a matter of keen public concern and press attention. We may need to incur significant costs or modify our business practices and/ or our services in order to comply with existing or revised laws and regulations, or to adapt to changing public attitudes about data usage. Any such costs or changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or prospects. If we are not able to comply with applicable laws, we may be subject to significant monetary penalties and/or orders demanding that we cease alleged noncompliant activities. These or other remedies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Our failure or alleged failure to comply with privacy and data protection laws, or with public attitudes about data usage, could harm our reputation, result in legal actions against us by governmental authorities or private claimants or cause us to lose customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or prospects. In addition, new legislation may be passed or judicial interpretations may be issued that restrict our use of data to provide information services to our clients. Any restrictions on our ability to provide these services to our clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation, financial condition and prospects. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our costs, our profits could be adversely affected. Historically, sustaining our growth has placed significant demands on our management as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. For us to continue to manage our expanded operations, as well as any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If our quality of service is compromised because we are unable to successfully manage our costs, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our operations do not produce the expected benefits, we may experience higher turnover in our customer base and our revenue and profits could be adversely affected. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can be affected by changes in our mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, establishment of accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies and changes in tax laws. The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period to period. Due to the ambiguity of tax laws and the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. In addition, our income tax returns are subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Our operating results and margins could fluctuate due to factors relating to stock-based compensation. Similar to many other companies, we use stock awards as a form of compensation for certain employees and non-employee directors. We must recognize the fair value of all stock-based awards, including grants of employee stock options, in our financial statements. The valuation model we use to estimate the fair value of our stock-based awards requires us to make several estimates and assumptions, such as the expected holding period of the awards and expected price volatility of our common stock. The amount we recognize for stock-based compensation expense could vary materially depending on changes in these estimates and assumptions. Other factors that could impact the amount of stock-based compensation expense we recognize include changes in the mix and type of stock-based awards we grant, changes in our compensation plans or tax rate, changes in the award forfeiture rate and differences in our company’s actual operating results compared to management’s estimates for performance-based awards. Changes in accounting principles and guidance, or their interpretation, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects, including changes to previously filed financial statements. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. We must recruit and retain skilled employees to succeed in our business, and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. We believe that an integral part of our success is our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced skills in the services and solutions that we provide and who work well with our customers. In particular, we must hire and retain employees with the technical expertise and industry knowledge necessary to 24 Table of Contents maintain and continue to develop our operations and must effectively manage our growing sales and marketing organization to ensure the growth of our operations. Our future success depends on the ability of our sales and marketing organization to establish direct sales channels and to develop multiple distribution channels. The employees with the skills we require are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees at all levels, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our services at desired pricing levels could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Our competitors and customers may cause us to reduce the prices we charge for our services and solutions. The primary sources of pricing pressure include: • competitors offering our customers services at reduced prices, or bundling and pricing services in a manner that makes it difficult for us to compete. For example, a competing provider of Internet infrastructure services might offer its services at lower rates than we do, or a competing domain name registry provider may reduce its prices for domain name registration; • customers with a significant volume of transactions may have enhanced leverage in pricing negotiations with us; and • if our prices are too high, potential customers may find it economically advantageous to handle certain functions internally instead of using our services. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of transactions we handle or the number of customers we serve, by generating higher revenue from enhanced services or by reducing our costs. Our expansion into international markets may be subject to uncertainties that could increase our costs to comply with regulatory requirements in foreign jurisdictions, disrupt our operations, and require increased focus from our management. We currently provide services to customers located in various international locations such as Brazil, Taiwan and China. We intend to pursue additional international business opportunities. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: • economic and political risks in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate; • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • differences in foreign laws and regulations, including foreign tax, intellectual property, privacy, labor and contract law, as well as unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • differing technology standards and pace of adoption; • export restrictions on encryption and other technologies; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; • increased competition by local, regional, or global companies; and • difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. 25 Table of Contents If we are not successful in growing our new Information Services business at the rate that we anticipate, our operating results could be negatively impacted. The operations of Targus Information Corporation (“TARGUSinfo”), which we acquired in November 2011, comprise our new Information Services segment. We are shifting our business to focus increasingly on sales of information services in addition to our carrier and enterprise services. Our ability to successfully grow our information services business depends on a number of different factors, including market acceptance of our information services, the expansion of our information services capabilities and geographic coverage, and continued public and regulatory acceptance of data usage for the provision of our information services, among others. If we are not successful in growing our information services business at the rate that we anticipate, we may not meet expected growth and gross margin projections or expectations, and our operating results, prospects and the market price of our securities could be adversely affected. We may be unable to complete acquisitions, or we may undertake acquisitions that increase our costs or liabilities or are disruptive to our business. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past, and one of our strategies is to pursue acquisitions selectively in the future. We may not be able to locate acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution to our stockholders. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. It is also possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors, creditors, or lessors, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates, and we may be required to invest significant capital and resources after acquisition to maintain or grow the businesses that we acquire. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, or long-lived assets, or record adjustments to the purchase price that occur after the closing of the transaction, which could reduce our future reported earnings. If we fail to successfully integrate and support the operations of the businesses we acquire, or if anticipated revenue enhancements and cost savings are not realized from these acquired businesses, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Further, acquired businesses may have liabilities, neutrality-related risks or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. The failure to discover such issues prior to such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks related to financial market conditions We may be unable to raise additional capital, if needed, or to raise capital on favorable terms. The general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly since 2008 and have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If funds generated by our operations or available under our 2013 Credit Facilities are insufficient to fund our future activities, including acquisitions, organic business ventures, or capital expenditures, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If unfavorable capital market conditions 26 Table of Contents exist when we seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain capital on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and we may not be able to fund further organic and inorganic growth of our business. Risks related to the notes and our other indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the notes. As of January 22, 2013, borrowings under our 2013 Credit Facilities and Notes was approximately $632.8 million, and we had unused revolving commitments of $192.2 million (after giving effect to $7.8 million of outstanding letters of credit). In addition, the 2013 Term Facility allows us to request one or more increases to the available term commitments under such facility. We are entitled to request such increases in an amount such that, after giving effect to such increases, either (a) the aggregate amount of increases does not exceed $400 million or (b) our consolidated secured leverage ratio on a pro forma basis after giving effect to any such increase is below 2.50 to 1.00. As of January 22, 2013, the total amount of such potential incremental increases we could request was approximately $659.5 million. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement that governs our 2013 Term Facility, the indenture that governs the Notes and our other debt instruments, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance investments or acquisitions, or for other general corporate purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our level of debt could have important consequences to the holders of our securities, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes and our other debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our 2013 Term Facility, are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, the indenture that governs the Notes and the credit agreement that governs our 2013 Term Facility contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debt. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 27 Table of Contents If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreement that governs our 2013 Term Facility and the indenture that governs the Notes restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our 2013 Term Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our 2013 Term Facility will be at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. Assuming all loans are fully drawn, each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $1.3 million change in annual interest expense on our indebtedness under our 2013 Term Facility. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock could be caused by many things, including: • our perceived prospects and the prospects of the telephone, Internet and data analytics industries in general; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • changes in general valuations for communications companies; • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; • sales of our Class A common stock by our officers, directors or principal stockholders; • sales of significant amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur; 28 Table of Contents • sales of our Class A common stock due to a required divestiture under the terms of our certificate of incorporation; and • changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Each of these factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. Recently, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise enable holders of less than a majority of our voting securities to elect some of our directors; • establish a classified Board of Directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the Board of Directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • disqualify any individual from serving on our board if such individual’s service as a director would cause us to violate our neutrality requirements; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In order to comply with our neutrality requirements, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership and transfer restrictions relating to telecommunications service providers and their affiliates, which may inhibit potential acquisition bids that our stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. In order to comply with neutrality requirements imposed by the FCC in its orders and rules, no entity that qualifies as a “telecommunications service provider” or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider, as 29 Table of Contents defined under the Communications Act of 1934 and FCC rules and orders, may beneficially own 5% or more of our capital stock. In general, a telecommunications service provider is an entity that offers telecommunications services to the public at large, and is, therefore, providing telecommunications services on a common carrier basis. Moreover, a party will be deemed to be an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider if that party controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a telecommunications service provider. A party is deemed to control another if that party, directly or indirectly: • owns 10% or more of the total outstanding equity of the other party; • has the power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of the directors or management of the other party; or • has the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the other party. As a result of this regulation, subject to limited exceptions, our certificate of incorporation (a) prohibits any telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider from beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding capital stock and (b) empowers our Board of Directors to determine whether any particular holder of our capital stock is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation provides that: • if one of our stockholders experiences a change in status or other event that results in the stockholder violating this restriction, or if any transfer of our stock occurs that, if effective, would violate the 5% restriction, we may elect to purchase the excess shares (i.e., the shares that cause the violation of the restriction) or require that the excess shares be sold to a third-party whose ownership will not violate the restriction; • pending a required divestiture of these excess shares, the holder whose beneficial ownership violates the 5% restriction may not vote the shares in excess of the 5% threshold; and • if our Board of Directors, or its permitted designee, determines that a transfer, attempted transfer or other event violating this restriction has taken place, we must take whatever action we deem advisable to prevent or refuse to give effect to the transfer, including refusal to register the transfer, disregard of any vote of the shares by the prohibited owner, or the institution of proceedings to enjoin the transfer. Any person who acquires, or attempts or intends to acquire, beneficial ownership of our stock that will or may violate this restriction must notify us as provided in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, any person who becomes the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our stock must notify us and certify that such person is not a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. If a 5% stockholder fails to supply the required certification, we are authorized to treat that stockholder as a prohibited owner — meaning, among other things, that we may elect to require that the excess shares be sold. We may request additional information from our stockholders to ensure compliance with this restriction. Our board will treat any “group,” as that term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as a single person for purposes of applying the ownership and transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation restricts our ability to purchase shares of our capital stock. If a purchase by us of shares of our capital stock results in a stockholder’s percentage interest in our outstanding capital stock increasing to over the 5% threshold, such stockholder must deliver the required certification regarding such stockholder’s status as a telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. In addition, to the extent that a repurchase by us of shares of our capital stock causes any stockholder to violate the restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our certificate of incorporation, that stockholder will be subject to all of the provisions applicable to prohibited owners, including required divestiture and loss of voting rights. 30 Table of Contents These restrictions and requirements may: • discourage industry participants that might have otherwise been interested in acquiring us from making a tender offer or proposing some other form of transaction that could involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; and • discourage investment in us by other investors who are telecommunications service providers or who may be deemed to be affiliates of a telecommunications service provider, which may decrease the demand for our Class A common stock and cause the market price of our Class A common stock to be lower. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 