Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly due to our limited number of existing restaurants and the expenses required to open new restaurants. We currently operate 26 restaurants, two of which opened during the fourth quarter of 2013, and we expect to open four additional restaurants in 2014, one of which opened during February 2014. The capital resources required to develop each new restaurant are significant. We estimate that the cost of opening a new Kona Grill restaurant currently ranges from $3.2 million to $3.7 million, exclusive of landlord tenant improvement allowances and $0.4 million in cash preopening expenses and assuming that we do not purchase the underlying real estate. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site and size of the restaurant and conditions in the local real estate and employment markets. The combination of our relatively small number of existing restaurants, the significant investment associated with each new restaurant, and the average unit volumes of our new restaurants may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly, and poor operating results at any one restaurant or a delay or cancellation in the planned opening of a restaurant could materially affect our company, making the investment risks related to any one location much larger than those associated with most other restaurant companies. Our sales and ability to continue to be profitable could be adversely affected if comparable restaurant sales increases are less than we expect, and we may not successfully increase comparable restaurant sales. While future sales growth will depend substantially on opening new restaurants, changes in comparable restaurant sales will also affect our sales growth and will continue to be a critical factor in generating future profits. This is because the profit margin on comparable restaurant sales is generally higher, as comparable restaurant sales increases enable fixed costs to be spread over a higher sales base. Conversely, declines in comparable restaurant sales can have a significant adverse effect on profitability due to the loss of the higher profit margins associated with higher comparable restaurant sales. Our comparable restaurant sales increased 1.4%, 2.7%, 8.8% and 0.9% during 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, but had declined 9.3% and 7.2% during 2009 and 2008, respectively. As our units continue in operation, it may be more difficult to continue to achieve significant increases in comparable restaurant sales. Further, the impact of the factors noted below may lower our expectations for comparable restaurant sales. • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, including weaker consumer spending in uncertain economic times; • consumer understanding and acceptance of the Kona Grill experience; • our ability to increase menu prices without adversely impacting customer traffic to such a degree that the impact of the decrease in customers equals or exceeds the benefit of the menu price increase; • any “trade down” by customers or other reduction in average check per person in response to price increases, which could reduce or eliminate the benefit of the price increase on comparable restaurant sales; • competition, either from our competitors in the restaurant industry, or from our own restaurants within the same market in the event customers who frequent one of our restaurants begin to visit one of our new restaurants instead; • executing our strategies effectively, including our development strategy, menu improvement initiatives and marketing and branding strategies, each of which may not drive an increase in customer traffic; • turnover of key operations and restaurant personnel; • weather, road construction and other factors limiting access to our restaurants; and • changes in government regulation. 11 A number of these factors are beyond our control. As a result, it is possible that we will not achieve our targeted comparable restaurant sales or that the change in comparable restaurant sales could be negative. If this were to happen, sales and profitability would be adversely affected and our stock price would likely decline. Further, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do to withstand prolonged periods of declines in comparable restaurant sales and regional and national restaurant companies continue to expand their operations into our current and anticipated market areas, thereby increasing competition for market share. We depend upon high levels of consumer traffic at the sites where our restaurants are located and any adverse change in consumer activity could negatively affect our restaurant sales and may require us to record an impairment charge for restaurants performing below expectations. Our restaurants are primarily located in high-activity areas such as retail centers, shopping malls, and lifestyle centers. We depend on high consumer traffic rates at these centers to attract customers to our restaurants. In general, such visit frequencies are significantly affected by many factors, including national, regional, or local economic conditions, anchor tenants closing in retail centers or shopping malls in which we operate, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, higher frequency of online shopping, changes in discretionary consumer spending, increasing gasoline prices, or otherwise. If visitor rates to these centers decline, our unit volumes could decline and adversely affect our results of operations, including recording an impairment charge for restaurants that are performing below expectations. During 2009, we recorded $16.9 million in asset impairment charges for six underperforming restaurants, including two restaurants that were closed during 2011. We may be required to record impairment charges in the future if certain restaurants perform below expectations. We have a limited number of restaurants upon which to evaluate our company, and you should not rely on our history as an indication of our future results. We currently operate 26 restaurants, approximately 27% of which have been operating for less than five years. Consequently, the results we have achieved to date with a relatively small number of restaurants may not be indicative of those restaurants’ long-term performance or the potential performance of new restaurants. A number of factors historically have affected and are likely to continue to affect our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales, including the following: ● our ability to execute effectively our business strategy; ● our ability to successfully select and secure sites for our concept; ● the operating performance of new and existing restaurants; ● competition in our markets; ● hiring, training, development and retention of key operations or restaurant personnel; ● consumer trends; and ● changes in political or economic conditions. Our average unit volume and same-store sales may not increase at the rate achieved over recent periods. In addition, we have closed three of our restaurants opened to date due to lower sales volume, including a restaurant in Naples, Florida in September 2008, a restaurant in West Palm Beach, Florida in July 2011, and a restaurant in Sugar Land, Texas in September 2011. Changes in our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 12 Our future expansion in existing markets may cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. Our future growth strategy includes opening new restaurants in our existing markets. We may be unable to attract enough customers to our new restaurants for them to operate profitably. In addition, customers to our new restaurants may be former customers of one of our existing restaurants in that market, which may reduce customer visits and sales at those existing restaurants, adversely affecting our operating results. Our ability to open new restaurants may be adversely affected by delays or problems associated with securing suitable restaurant locations and leases and by other factors, some of which are beyond our control and the timing of which is difficult to forecast accurately. Due in part to the unique nature of each proposed restaurant location, we cannot predict the timing or ultimate success of our site selection process or our ability to open new restaurants on a timely basis after we have identified sites. Our goal over the next five years is to grow organically and double our sales, which translates to an approximately 15% compounded annual growth rate. We plan to open at least four new restaurants in 2014, including the recently opened Fort Worth location, and currently have two signed leases for 2015 openings. There can be no assurance that our growth goal will be realized because our ability to open new restaurants depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● the availability and cost of suitable restaurant locations for development and our ability to compete successfully for those locations; ● difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms; ● cash flow generated by our existing restaurants; ● delay or cancellation of new site development by developers and landlords, which may become increasingly common during periods of economic uncertainty or tight credit; ● difficulty managing construction and development costs of new restaurants at affordable levels, particularly in competitive markets; ● labor shortages or disputes experienced by our landlords or outside contractors; ● unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; ● our ability to secure governmental approvals and permits, including liquor licenses, construction permits, and occupancy permits; ● the ability of our corporate staff to develop a greater number of new restaurants than our company has developed during the past several years while successfully managing existing restaurants; ● obstacles to hiring and training qualified operating personnel in the local market; ● weather conditions or natural disasters; and ● general economic conditions. A lack of availability of suitable locations for new restaurants or a decline in the quality of the locations of our current restaurants may adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The success of our restaurants depends in large part on their location. As demographic and economic patterns change, current locations may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in neighborhoods and trade areas where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in areas surrounding those neighborhoods could result in reduced sales at those locations. In addition, desirable locations for new restaurant openings may not be available at an acceptable cost. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a significant adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. 13 Any deterioration in general economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our landlords or on businesses neighboring our locations, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Any deterioration in general economic conditions could result in our landlords being unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements which could result in their failure to satisfy obligations to us under leases, including failures to fund or reimburse agreed-upon tenant improvement allowances. Any such failure could adversely impact our operations. Our restaurants are generally located in retail developments with nationally recognized co-tenants, which help increase overall customer traffic into those retail developments. Some of our co-tenants have ceased or may cease operations in the future or have deferred openings or failed to open in a retail development after committing to do so. These failures may lead to reduced customer traffic and a general deterioration in the surrounding retail centers in which our restaurants are located and may contribute to lower customer traffic at our restaurants. If these retail developments experience high vacancy rates, we could experience decreases in customer traffic. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the credit and lending industry continue to be restrictive. Lenders are taking a more active role in reviewing tenant leases and prospective tenancies and have been more restrictive in approving tenancies and financing. This may affect our ability to lease sites at terms as favorable as we have received in the past. In addition, if our landlords are unable to obtain sufficient credit to continue to properly manage their retail centers, we may experience a drop in the level of quality of such centers where we operate restaurants. Our future development of new restaurants may also be adversely affected by the negative financial situations of developers and potential landlords. Landlords may try to delay or cancel recent development projects (as well as renovations of existing projects) due to the instability in the credit markets and recent declines in consumer spending, which could reduce the number of appropriate locations available that we would consider for our new restaurants. Furthermore, the failure of landlords to obtain licenses or permits for development projects on a timely basis, which is beyond our control, may negatively impact our ability to implement our development plan. Unexpected expenses and low market acceptance of our restaurant concept could adversely affect the profitability of restaurants that we open in new markets. As part of our expansion strategy, we have opened and plan to open restaurants in markets in which we have no prior operating experience and in which our brand may not be well-known. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns than restaurants in our existing markets. As a result, we may incur costs related to the opening, operation, and promotion of these new restaurants that are greater than those incurred in markets with longer operating history. Accordingly, sales at restaurants opening in new markets may take longer to achieve or may not achieve average unit volumes comparable with our existing restaurants. Our growth may strain our infrastructure and resources, which could slow our development of new restaurants and adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We plan to continue opening new restaurants and currently expect to open four new restaurants during 2014, including one location opened in February 2014. Our continued expansion will increase demands on our management team, restaurant management systems and resources, financial controls and information systems. These increased demands may adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants and to manage our existing restaurants. If we fail to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to meet our expansion objectives, our growth rate and operating results could be adversely affected. 14 Any decision to either reduce or accelerate the pace of openings may positively or adversely affect our comparative financial performance. Our preopening expenses continue to be significant, and the amount of such expenses incurred in any one year or quarter is dependent on the number of restaurants expected to be opened during that time period. As such, our decision to either decrease or increase the rate of openings may have a significant impact on our financial performance for a particular period. Therefore, if we decide to reduce our new restaurant openings, our comparable preopening expenses will be lower and the effect on our comparative financial performance will be favorable. Conversely, if the rate at which we develop and open new restaurants is increased to higher levels in the future, the resulting increase in preopening expenses will have an unfavorable short-term impact on our comparative financial performance. We may require additional capital in the future as a result of changes in our restaurant operations or growth plans, and our inability to raise such capital could harm our operations and restrict our growth. Changes in our restaurant operations, lower than anticipated restaurant sales, increased food or labor costs, increased property expenses, or other events, including those described in this report, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our restaurant growth plans as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants, and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. Our new restaurants, once opened, may not be profitable, and may adversely impact the sales of our existing restaurants. Historically, many of our new restaurants have opened with an initial ramp-up period typically lasting 18 months or more, during which they generated sales and income below the levels at which we expect them to operate. This is in part due to the time it takes to build a customer base in a new market or area, higher fixed costs relating to increased labor and other start-up inefficiencies that are typical of new restaurants. It may also be difficult for us to attract a customer base if we are not able to staff our restaurants with employees who perform to our high standards. If we are unable to build the customer base that we expect for new restaurant locations or overcome the higher fixed costs associated with new restaurant locations, new restaurants may not have similar results as our existing restaurants and may not be profitable. Failure to attract, retain and motivate effective leaders and the loss of key personnel could negatively impact our business. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key management and operations personnel. We must be able to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operations personnel, including culinary and training personnel, district managers, general managers and executive chefs. Our executive officers provide a vision for our company, execute our business strategy, and maintain consistency in the operating standards of our restaurants. The ability of key management and operations personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and diversity of our menu offerings as well as service and hospitality for our customers is a critical factor in our future success. Any failure to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business. Our restaurants are subject to natural disasters and other events which are beyond our control and for which we may not be able to obtain insurance at reasonable rates. We endeavor to insure our restaurants against wind, flood, and other disasters, but we may not be able to obtain insurance for these types of events for all of our restaurants at reasonable rates. A devastating natural disaster or other event in the vicinity of one of our restaurants could result in substantial losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 15 If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, we may experience short-term supply shortages and increased food and beverage costs. We currently use a national food distribution service company and other regional distributors to provide food and beverage products to all of our restaurants. If our suppliers cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to secure an alternative supply source. In addition, any delay in replacing suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants, which also could adversely affect our business. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse weather conditions can impact customer traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating and in more severe cases such as hurricanes, tornadoes and other natural disasters, cause temporary closures, sometimes for prolonged periods, which would negatively impact our restaurant sales. Changes in weather could result in interruptions to the availability of utilities, and shortages or interruption in the supply of food items and other supplies, which could increase our costs and negatively impact our operations. Our failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, or trade secrets could negatively affect our competitive position and the value of the Kona Grill brand. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Kona Grill name. Although Kona Grill is a federally registered trademark, our trademarks and service marks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. Alternatively, third parties may attempt to cause us to change our name or not operate in a certain geographic region if our name is confusingly similar to their name. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts, and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. Additionally, we do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our executives, key personnel, or suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Like all restaurant companies, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as adverse weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, government regulations, product recalls and seasonality. Although we can purchase certain commodities under contract, we currently do not use financial management strategies or have long-term contracts in place for the majority of commodities to reduce our exposure to price fluctuations. Changes in the price or availability of certain types of seafood, poultry, beef, grains, or produce could affect our ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to customers and could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. 16 Changes in governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing and future operations and to open new restaurants. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act (which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions), along with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters, including tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status. We expect increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage, and although such increases are not expected to be material, we cannot assure you that there will not be material increases in the future. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor for our restaurants in a particular area or across the United States. Other labor shortages or increased employee turnover could also increase labor costs. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards or availability of labor, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. We offer eligible full-time salaried employees the opportunity to enroll in healthcare coverage subsidized by us. Our employees may or may not choose to participate in our health plans. Under the provisions of the Affordable Care Act enacted in 2010, changes that become effective in 2014, and especially the employer mandate and employer penalties that are scheduled to become effective in 2015, may increase our labor costs significantly. Changes in the law that become effective in 2014, including the imposition of a penalty on individuals who do not obtain healthcare coverage, may result in eligible employees who elect not to participate in our healthcare plans now finding it more advantageous to do so, which may increase our healthcare costs. In 2015, we will either adopt a qualifying plan under the Affordable Care Act for our full-time hourly employees, which will likely increase our healthcare expenses significantly, or we will be subject to employer penalties, which could also significantly increase our labor costs. It is also possible that making changes or failing to make changes in the healthcare plans we offer will make us less attractive to our current or potential employees. Additionally, implementing the requirements of the Affordable Care Act is likely to impose some additional administrative costs on us. The costs and other effects of these new healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, but they may have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating results. We are also subject to laws and regulations, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, relating to nutritional content and menu labeling. Compliance with these laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity, changes in sales mix and profitability, and increased exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. We cannot reliably anticipate any changes in customer behavior if we alter our recipes to comply with such laws and regulations. This could have adverse effects on our sales or results of operations. Furthermore, we are subject to federal and state environmental regulations, and although these have not had a material negative effect on our operations, we cannot ensure that there will not be a material negative effect in the future. In particular, the U.S. has increased focus on environmental matters such as climate change, greenhouse gases and water conservation. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. These efforts could result in increased taxation or in future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation costs and utility costs, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance. Further, more stringent and varied requirements of local and state governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay, prevent or make cost prohibitive the continuing operations of an existing restaurant or the development of new restaurants in particular locations. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. 17 Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase operating costs, restrict our growth, or require us to suspend operations. Each of our restaurants must obtain licenses from regulatory authorities allowing it to sell liquor, beer, and wine, and each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local health authorities. Each restaurant’s liquor license must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended at any time for cause, including violation by us or our employees of any laws and regulations relating to the minimum drinking age, over serving, advertising, wholesale purchasing, and inventory control. Each restaurant is also subject to local health inspections. Failure to pass one or multiple inspections may result in temporary or permanent suspension of operations and could significantly impact our reputation. In certain states, including states where we have existing restaurants or where we may open restaurants in the future, the number of liquor licenses available is limited and licenses are traded at market prices. Liquor, beer, and wine sales comprise a significant portion of our sales, representing 30% of our sales during 2013. Therefore, if we are unable to maintain our existing licenses, or if we choose to open a restaurant in those states, the cost of a new license could be significant. Obtaining and maintaining licenses is an important component of each of our restaurant’s operations, and the failure to obtain or maintain food and liquor licenses and other required licenses, permits, and approvals would adversely impact our restaurants and our growth strategy. Negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef, seafood, poultry, or produce generally, or shifts in consumer tastes, could negatively impact the popularity of our restaurants, our sales, and our results of operations. The popularity of our restaurants in general, and our menu offerings in particular, are key factors to the success of our operations. Negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury, or other health concerns, whether related to one of our restaurants or to the beef, seafood, poultry, or produce industries in general (such as negative publicity concerning salmonella, e-coli, Hepatitis A, mercury poisoning and other food-borne illnesses), or operating problems related to one or more of our restaurants, could make our brand and menu offerings less appealing to consumers. In addition, other shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food we offer, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make our restaurants less appealing and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be harmed and we may not achieve profitability. Litigation concerning our food quality, employment practices, liquor liability, and other issues could result in significant expenses to us and could divert resources from our operations. Like other restaurants, we may receive complaints or litigation from, and potential liability to, our customers involving food-borne illness or injury or other operational issues. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from, and potential liability to, our former, existing, or prospective employees involving our restaurant employment practices and procedures. In addition, we are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages, under “dram shop” statutes. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, our sales may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such claims. Such claims may also be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and adversely affect our business. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant general managers and kitchen managers, necessary to continue our operations. This ability is especially critical to our company because of our relatively small number of existing restaurants. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our business and growth strategy could be adversely affected. Competition for qualified restaurant employees in current or prospective markets could require us to pay higher wages and benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid rates based upon the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips for a significant portion of their income. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could increase our labor costs. We may be unable to increase our prices proportionately in order to pass these increased costs on to our customers, in which case our operating margins would be adversely affected. 18 Our business could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect our customers’ credit card information or our employees’ personal data. Additionally, the inappropriate use of social media vehicles could harm our reputation and adversely impact our business. We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. Any material failure, interruption of service, or compromised data security, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. Significant capital investments might be required to remediate any problems. While we take data security very seriously and expend significant resources to ensure that our information technology operates securely and effectively, any security breaches could result in disruptions to operations or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Additionally, if our customers’ credit card or other personal information or our team members’ personal data are compromised, our operations could be adversely affected, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subjected to litigation or the imposition of penalties resulting from violation of federal and state laws and payment card industry regulations. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance. As part of our marketing efforts, we rely on search engine marketing and social media platforms to attract and retain customers. A variety of risks are associated with the use of social media, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our company, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or outdated information. The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: ● recruitment or departure of key restaurant operations or management personnel; ● actual or anticipated variations in comparable restaurant sales or operating results; whether in our operations or those of our competitors; ● changes in the consumer spending environment or general economic conditions; ● changes in the market valuations of other companies in the restaurant industry; ● changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock; ● trade volume outside of normal patterns; and ● announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of restaurant operations or lawsuits filed against us. Due to the volatility of our stock price, we also may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from the business as well as depress the price of our common stock. 19 Our current principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval. Two of our directors and our chief executive officer together currently own approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these investors may have significant influence over a decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not our other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding 8,602,722 shares of common stock, all of which shares are either freely tradable or otherwise eligible for sale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have 1,701,303 shares available for issuance under our stock award and employee stock purchase plans. We have filed registration statements under the securities laws to register the common stock to be issued under these plans. As a result, shares issued under these plans will be freely tradable without restriction unless acquired by affiliates of our company, who will be subject to the volume and other limitations of Rule 144. We may not continue to buy back shares of common stock under our share repurchase program, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In November 2011, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase and retirement program under which we were authorized to purchase up to $5.0 million of common stock. We completed the 2011 authorization in February 2012, purchasing and retiring 858,663 shares. In May 2012, our Board of Directors authorized another stock repurchase and retirement program of up to $5.0 million of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2013, we had spent $3.2 million to purchase and retire 387,109 shares under the 2012 authorization, with $203,000 of stock purchases during 2013. The authorization of the program does not have an expiration date and it does not require us to purchase a specific dollar amount of shares. This authorization may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time. The timing and number of shares purchased pursuant to the share purchase authorization are subject to a number of factors, including current market conditions, legal constraints and available cash. If we do not continue to repurchase shares of our common stock, this could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions on our maintaining a classified Board of Directors and limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on the voting of “control shares” and on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. 20 Since we do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, holders of our common stock may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to reinvest any earnings to finance our restaurant operations and growth plans, or for a stock repurchase program. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 