Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and we may never achieve profitability. We incurred net losses during each of the last six years. We may find that efforts to achieve profitability are more difficult than we currently anticipate or that our remodel or expansion efforts do not result in proportionate increases in our sales, which would further increase our losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. Our sales and ability to achieve profitability could be adversely affected if comparable restaurant sales increases are less than we expect, and we may not successfully increase comparable restaurant sales. While future sales growth will depend substantially on opening new restaurants, changes in comparable restaurant sales will also affect our sales growth and will continue to be a critical factor in achieving profitability. This is because the profit margin on comparable restaurant sales is generally higher, as comparable restaurant sales increases enable fixed costs to be spread over a higher sales base. Conversely, declines in comparable restaurant sales can have a significant adverse effect on profitability due to the loss of the higher profit margins associated with comparable restaurant sales. Comparable restaurant sales increased 0.9% during 2010, but had declined 9.3% and 7.2% during 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect comparable restaurant sales in 2011 to increase at a level greater than that achieved in 2010. However, the impact of ongoing weakness in consumer spending and other factors noted below, may lower our expectations for comparable restaurant sales. Our ability to increase comparable restaurant sales depends on many factors, including the following: • changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, including weaker consumer spending in difficult economic times, such as those that persisted during 2010; • consumer understanding and acceptance of the Kona Grill experience; • our ability to increase menu prices without adversely impacting guest traffic to such a degree that the impact of the decrease in guests equals or exceeds the benefit of the menu price increase; • executing our strategies effectively, including our menu improvement initiatives and marketing and branding strategies, each of which may not drive an increase in guest traffic; • weather, road construction and other factors limiting access to our restaurants; and • changes in government regulation. A number of these factors are beyond our control. As a result of these factors it is possible that we will not achieve our targeted comparable restaurant sales or that the change in comparable restaurant sales could be negative. If this were to happen, sales and profitability would be adversely affected and our stock price would be likely to decline. We may require additional capital in the future as a result of changes in our restaurant operations or growth plans, and our inability to raise such capital could harm our operations and restrict our growth. Changes in our restaurant operations, lower than anticipated restaurant sales, increased food or labor costs, increased property expenses, or other events, including those described in this report, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our restaurant growth plans as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants, and financial ratios that may restrict our ability to operate and grow our business, and would cause us to incur additional interest expense and financing costs. 12 Table of Contents Unexpected expenses and low market acceptance of our restaurant concept could adversely affect the profitability of restaurants that we open in new markets. As part of our expansion strategy, we have opened and plan to open restaurants in markets in which we have no prior operating experience and in which our brand may not be well-known. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns than restaurants in our existing markets. As a result, we may incur costs related to the opening, operation, and promotion of these new restaurants that are greater than those incurred in markets with longer operating history. As a result of these factors, sales at restaurants opening in new markets may take longer to achieve average unit volumes comparable with our existing restaurants, if at all, which would adversely affect the profitability of those new restaurants. We depend upon high levels of consumer traffic at the sites where our restaurants are located and any adverse change in consumer activity could negatively affect our restaurant sales and may require us to record an impairment charge for restaurants performing below expectations. Our restaurants are primarily located in high-activity areas such as retail centers, shopping malls, and lifestyle centers. We depend on high consumer traffic rates at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. In general, such visit frequencies are significantly affected by many factors, including national, regional, or local economic conditions, anchor tenants closing in retail centers or shopping malls in which we operate, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, higher frequency of online shopping, changes in discretionary consumer spending, increasing gasoline prices, or otherwise. If visitor rates to these centers decline, our unit volumes could decline and adversely affect our results of operations, including recording an impairment charge for restaurants that are performing below expectations. During 2009, we recorded $16.9 million in asset impairment charges for six underperforming restaurants. We may be required to record impairment charges in the future if certain restaurants perform below expectations. We have a limited operating history and a limited number of restaurants upon which to evaluate our company, and you should not rely on our history as an indication of our future results. We currently operate 25 restaurants, more than half of which have operated for less than five years. Consequently, the results we have achieved to date with a relatively small number of restaurants may not be indicative of those restaurants’ long-term performance or the potential performance of new restaurants. A number of factors historically have affected and are likely to continue to affect our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales, including the following: · our ability to execute effectively our business strategy; · our ability to successfully select and secure sites for our concept; · the operating performance of new and existing restaurants; · competition in our markets; · consumer trends; and · changes in political or economic conditions. Our average unit volume has declined in recent years. Average unit volumes for three of our restaurants opened within the last two years were significantly below the average unit volume of our comparable restaurant base. In addition, we closed a restaurant in Naples, Florida in September 2008 due to low sales volume. Changes in our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 13 Table of Contents Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our business, including the availability and cost of funding, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Our growth strategy depends upon the capital markets to expand our operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to borrow money from banks or other potential lenders. Our access to funds under any potential credit facility will depend on the ability of the banks or other lenders to commit to lend funds to us. In the event we enter into a credit facility with banks or other lenders, those parties may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to capital. Any long-term disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business can be arranged. Such measures could result in deferring capital expenditures or altering our growth strategy to reduce the opening of new restaurants. Our future expansion in existing markets may cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. Our future growth strategy includes opening new restaurants in our existing markets. We may be unable to attract enough guests to our new restaurants for them to operate profitably. In addition, guests to our new restaurants may be former guests of one of our existing restaurants in that market, which may reduce guest visits and sales at those existing restaurants, adversely affecting our results of operations. Our ability to open new restaurants may be adversely affected by delays or problems associated with securing suitable restaurant locations and leases and by other factors, some of which are beyond our control and the timing of which is difficult to forecast accurately. Due in part to the unique nature of each proposed restaurant location, we cannot predict the timing or ultimate success of our site selection process. Our ability to open new restaurants depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · the availability and cost of suitable restaurant locations for development and our ability to compete successfully for those locations; · the availability of adequate financing; · cash flow generated by our existing restaurants; · the timing of delivery of leased premises from our landlords so we can commence our build-out construction activities; · construction and development costs; · labor shortages or disputes experienced by our landlords or outside contractors; · unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; · our ability to secure governmental approvals and permits, including liquor licenses, construction permits, and occupancy permits; · weather conditions or natural disasters; and · general economic conditions. 14 Table of Contents Our restaurants are subject to natural disasters and other events which are beyond our control and for which we may not be able to obtain insurance at reasonable rates. We endeavor to insure our restaurants against wind, flood, and other disasters, but we may not be able to obtain insurance for these types of events for all of our restaurants at reasonable rates. A devastating natural disaster or other event in the vicinity of one of our restaurants could result in substantial losses and have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, we may experience short-term supply shortages and increased food and beverage costs. We currently use a national food distribution service company and other regional distributors to provide food and beverage products to all of our restaurants. If our suppliers cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to secure an alternative supply source. In addition, any delay in replacing suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants, which also could adversely affect our business. Our failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, or trade secrets could negatively affect our competitive position and the value of the Kona Grill brand. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Kona Grill name. Although Kona Grill is a federally registered trademark, our trademarks and service marks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. Alternatively, third parties may attempt to cause us to change our name or not operate in a certain geographic region if our name is confusingly similar to their name. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts, and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our executives, key personnel, or suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Like all restaurant companies, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as adverse weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, government regulations, product recalls and seasonality. We currently do not purchase seafood, poultry, beef, or produce pursuant to long-term contracts or use financial management strategies to reduce our exposure to price fluctuations. Approximately 30% of our sales are seafood and fish for which we are not able to contract for future supply or pricing. Changes in the price or availability of certain types of seafood, poultry, beef, grains, or produce could affect our ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to guests and could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our sales and results of operations. Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase operating costs, restrict our growth, or require us to suspend operations. Each of our restaurants must obtain licenses from regulatory authorities allowing it to sell liquor, beer, and wine, and each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local health authorities. Each restaurant’s liquor license must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended at any time for cause, including violation by us or our employees of any laws and regulations relating to the minimum drinking age, over serving, advertising, wholesale purchasing, and inventory control. Each restaurant is also subject to local health inspections. Failure to pass one or multiple inspections may result in temporary or permanent suspension of operations and could significantly impact our reputation. In certain states, including states where we have existing restaurants or where we may open restaurants in the future, the number of liquor licenses available is limited and licenses are traded at market prices. Liquor, beer, and wine sales comprise a significant portion of our sales, representing 31% of our sales during 2010. Therefore, if we are unable to maintain our existing licenses, or if we choose to open a restaurant in those states, the cost of a new license could be significant. Obtaining and maintaining licenses is an important component of each of our restaurant’s operations, and the failure to obtain or maintain food and liquor licenses and other required licenses, permits, and approvals would adversely impact our restaurants and our growth strategy. 15 Table of Contents Negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef, seafood, poultry, or produce generally, or shifts in consumer tastes, could negatively impact the popularity of our restaurants, our sales, and our results of operations. The popularity of our restaurants in general, and our menu offerings in particular, are key factors to the success of our operations. Negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury, or other health concerns, whether related to one of our restaurants or to the beef, seafood, poultry, or produce industries in general (such as negative publicity concerning salmonella, e-coli, Hepatitis A, mercury poisoning and other food-borne illnesses), or operating problems related to one or more of our restaurants, could make our brand and menu offerings less appealing to consumers. In addition, other shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food we offer, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make our restaurants less appealing and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be harmed and we may not achieve profitability. Litigation concerning our food quality, employment practices, liquor liability, and other issues could result in significant expenses to us and could divert resources from our operations. Like other restaurants, we may receive complaints or litigation from, and potential liability to, our guests involving food-borne illness or injury or other operational issues. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from, and potential liability to, our former, existing, or prospective employees involving our restaurant employment practices and procedures. In addition, we are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages, under “dram shop” statutes. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, our sales may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such claims. Such claims may also be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and adversely affect our business. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or adversely affect our business. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant general managers and kitchen managers, necessary to continue our operations. This ability is especially critical to our company because of our relatively small number of existing restaurants. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our business and growth strategy could be adversely affected. Competition for qualified restaurant employees in current or prospective markets could require us to pay higher wages and benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid rates based upon the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips for a significant portion of their income. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could increase our labor costs. We may be unable to increase our prices proportionately in order to pass these increased costs on to our guests, in which case our operating margins would be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: · actual or anticipated variations in comparable restaurant sales or operating results; whether in our operations or those of our competitors; · changes in the consumer spending environment or general economic conditions; · changes in the market valuations of other companies in the restaurant industry; · recruitment or departure of key restaurant operations or management personnel; · changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our stock; and · announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of restaurant operations or lawsuits filed against us. We are a party to a securities complaint alleging breach of fiduciary duty by our board of directors. We also may become the target of additional securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our attention and resources from the business as well as depress the price of our common stock. Our current principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval. Five entities or persons together own approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock, including three of our directors. As a result, these investors may have significant influence over a decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not our other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. The large number of shares eligible for public sale and registered for resale could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding 9,186,795 shares of common stock, all of which shares are either freely tradable or otherwise eligible for sale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have approximately 1,540,000 shares available for issuance under our stock award and employee stock purchase plans. We have filed registration statements under the securities laws to register the common stock to be issued under these plans. As a result, shares issued under these plans will be freely tradable without restriction unless acquired by affiliates of our company, who will be subject to the volume and other limitations of Rule 144. 17 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions on our maintaining a classified Board of Directors and limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on the voting of “control shares” and on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Since we do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, holders of our common stock may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to reinvest any earnings to finance our restaurant operations and growth plans. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 