Item 1A. Risk Factors We have a limited operating history and a limited number of restaurants upon which to evaluate our company, and you should not rely on our history as an indication of our future results. We currently operate nine restaurants, four of which have operated for less than 18 months. Consequently, the results we have achieved to date with a relatively small number of restaurants may not be indicative of those restaurants’ long-term performance or the potential performance of new restaurants. A number of factors 12 Table of Contents historically have affected and are likely to continue to affect our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales, including the following: • our ability to execute effectively our business strategy; • our ability to successfully select and secure sites for our Kona Grill concept; • the operating performance of new and existing restaurants; • competition in our markets; • consumer trends; and • changes in political or economic conditions. Our average unit volume and same store sales may not increase at rates achieved over recent periods. Four of our newest restaurants opened with average unit volumes significantly below the average unit volume of our initial four restaurants open 18 full months or longer. Changes in our average unit volumes and comparable restaurant sales could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We have a history of losses, we expect to experience continuing losses for at least the next year, and we may never achieve profitability. We incurred net losses in each of 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2005. We believe that we will continue to incur net losses for at least the next year, and possibly longer. In addition, we expect that our expenses for the foreseeable future will increase in order to continue the construction and development of additional restaurants and to meet the requirements of being a public company. We may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate or that our expansion efforts do not result in proportionate increases in our sales, which would further increase our losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly due to our limited number of existing restaurants and the expenses required to open new restaurants. We currently operate nine restaurants, four of which opened within the last 18 months, and we expect to open five restaurants in 2006. The capital resources required to develop each new restaurant are significant. We estimate that the cost of opening a new Kona Grill restaurant currently ranges from $3.0 million to $3.5 million, exclusive of landlord tenant improvement allowances and preopening expenses and assuming that we do not purchase the underlying real estate. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site and size of the restaurant and conditions in the local real estate and employment markets. The combination of our relatively small number of existing restaurants, the significant investment associated with each new restaurant, and the average unit volumes of our new restaurants may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly, and poor operating results at any one restaurant or a delay or cancellation in the planned opening of a restaurant could materially affect our company, making the investment risks related to any one location much larger than those associated with most other restaurants. Our growth may strain our infrastructure and resources, which could slow our development of new restaurants and adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. We expect to open five restaurants in 2006 which will be the most single-year restaurant openings we have had in our history. This expansion and our future growth will increase demands on our management team, restaurant management systems and resources, financial controls, and information systems. These increased demands may adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants. If we fail to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to meet our expansion objectives, our operating results could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents If we do not successfully expand our restaurant operations, our growth and results of operations could be harmed significantly. A critical factor in our future success is our ability to expand successfully our restaurant operations. We currently plan to open five restaurants during 2006, and we continue to actively seek additional locations to open new restaurants. If we do not successfully open and operate new restaurants, our growth and results of operations could be harmed significantly. Our ability to open new restaurants in a timely manner and operate them profitably depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • the availability and cost of suitable restaurant locations for development and our ability to compete successfully for those locations; • the timing of delivery of leased premises from our landlords so we can commence our build-out construction activities; • construction and development costs; • labor shortages or disputes experienced by our landlords or outside contractors; • unforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises; • weather conditions or natural disasters; and • general economic conditions. Each of these factors could delay or prevent us from successfully opening and operating new restaurants, which would adversely affect our growth and results of operations. Unexpected expenses and low market acceptance of our restaurant concept could adversely affect the profitability of restaurants that we open in new markets. As part of our expansion strategy, we plan to open restaurants in markets in which we have no prior operating experience and in which our brand may not be well known. For example, we expect to open new restaurants in Dallas, Texas; Lincolnshire, Illinois; Oakbrook, Illinois; and Naples, Florida, all markets in which we have no existing restaurants. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns than restaurants in our existing markets. As a result, we may incur costs related to the opening, operation, and promotion of these new restaurants that are greater than those incurred in existing markets. Due to these factors, sales at restaurants opening in new markets may take longer to achieve average unit volumes compared with our existing restaurants, if at all, which would adversely affect the profitability of those new restaurants. Currently, our restaurant in Sugarland, Texas is experiencing lower than expected volumes due to impaired visibility and access as a result of construction of the nearby mall expansion. This restaurant may not reach anticipated volumes once the construction is completed. Our expansion in existing markets may cause sales in some of our existing restaurants to decline. Our growth strategy includes opening new restaurants in our existing markets. We may be unable to attract enough guests to our new restaurants for them to operate profitably. In addition, guests to our new restaurants may be former guests of one of our existing restaurants in that market, which may reduce guest visits and sales at those existing restaurants, adversely affecting our results of operations. If our distributors or suppliers do not provide food and beverages to us in a timely fashion, we may experience short-term supply shortages and increased food and beverage costs. We currently depend on U.S. Foodservice, a national food distribution service company, to provide food and beverage products to all of our restaurants. We do not have a long-term contractual arrangement with U.S. Foodservice. If U.S. Foodservice or other distributors or suppliers cease doing business with us, we could experience short-term supply shortages in some or all of our restaurants and could be required to purchase 14 Table of Contents food and beverage products at higher prices until we are able to secure an alternative supply source. In addition, any delay in replacing our suppliers or distributors on acceptable terms could, in extreme cases, require us to remove temporarily items from the menus of one or more of our restaurants. Our failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, or trade secrets could negatively affect our competitive position and the value of the Kona Grill brand. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Kona Grill name. Although Kona Grill is a federally registered trademark, our trademarks and service marks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. Alternatively, third parties may attempt to cause us to change our name or not operate in a certain geographic region if our name is confusingly similar to their name. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts, and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. We do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our executives, key personnel, or suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed. We may require additional capital in the future as a result of changes in our restaurant operations or growth plans, and our inability to raise such capital could harm our operations and restrict our growth. Changes in our restaurant operations, acceleration of our restaurant expansion plans, lower than anticipated restaurant sales, increased food or labor costs, increased property expenses, or other events, including those described in this report, may cause us to seek additional debt or equity financing on an accelerated basis. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could negatively impact our restaurant growth plans as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock. Debt financing may involve significant cash payment obligations, covenants, and financial ratios that restrict our ability to operate and grow our business. We are conducting a search for a President and Chief Executive Officer. The successful management of our restaurant operations and growth may suffer because our senior management team has a limited history of working together. Our success depends, in large part, upon the services of our senior management team. We are currently conducting a search for a President and Chief Executive Officer and we have not set a timetable for completion of the search. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract a qualified person nor can we assure you the individual we hire will fully integrate into our business or that such individual will work effectively together with our current senior management to manage our growth. Our failure to assimilate this new executive, the failure of our executives to perform effectively, or the loss of any of these executives, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. Risks Related To The Restaurant Industry Negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef, seafood, poultry, or produce generally, or shifts in consumer tastes, could negatively impact the popularity of our restaurants, our sales, and our results of operations. The popularity of our restaurants in general, and our menu offerings in particular, are key factors to the success of our operations. Negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury, or other health concerns, whether related to one of our restaurants or to the beef, seafood, poultry, or produce industries in 15 Table of Contents general (such as negative publicity concerning the accumulation of carcinogens in seafood, e-coli, Hepatitis A, and outbreaks of “mad cow,” “foot-and-mouth,” or “bird flu” disease), or operating problems related to one or more of our restaurants, could make our brand and menu offerings less appealing to consumers. In addition, other shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food we offer, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make our restaurants less appealing and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be harmed and we will not achieve profitability. Increases in the prices of, or reductions in the availability of, seafood, poultry, beef, or produce could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our operating results. Our profitability depends significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in seafood, poultry, beef, or produce costs. The supply and price of these items is more volatile than other types of food. The type, variety, quality, and price of seafood, poultry, beef, and produce is subject to factors beyond our control, including weather, transportation costs, governmental regulation, availability, and seasonality, each of which may affect our food costs or cause a disruption in our supply. We currently do not purchase seafood, poultry, beef, or produce pursuant to long-term contracts or use financial management strategies to reduce our exposure to price fluctuations. Changes in the price or availability of certain types of seafood, poultry, beef, or produce could affect our ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to our guests and could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations. A decline in visitors to any of the retail centers, shopping malls, or entertainment centers where our restaurants are located could negatively affect our restaurant sales. Our restaurants are primarily located in high-activity areas such as retail centers, shopping malls, lifestyle centers, and entertainment centers. We depend on high visitor rates at these centers to attract guests to our restaurants. If visitor rates to these centers decline due to economic or political conditions, anchor tenants closing in retail centers or shopping malls in which we operate, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, changes in discretionary consumer spending, increasing petroleum prices, or otherwise, our unit volumes could decline and adversely affect our results of operations. Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase our operating costs and restrict our growth. Each of our restaurants must obtain licenses from regulatory authorities allowing it to sell liquor, beer, and wine, and each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local health authorities. Each restaurant’s liquor license must be renewed annually and may be revoked at any time for cause, including violation by us or our employees of any laws and regulations relating to the minimum drinking age, advertising, wholesale purchasing, and inventory control. In certain states, including states where we have existing restaurants or where we plan to open restaurants in the near term, the number of liquor licenses available is limited and licenses are traded at market prices. Liquor, beer, and wine sales comprise a significant portion of our sales, representing approximately 34% of our sales during 2005. Therefore, if we are unable to maintain our existing licenses, or if we choose to open a restaurant in those states, the cost of a new license could be significant. Obtaining and maintaining licenses is an important component of each of our restaurant’s operations, and the failure to obtain or maintain food and liquor licenses and other required licenses, permits, and approvals would adversely impact our existing restaurants and our growth strategy. In addition, the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Although our restaurants are designed to be accessible to the disabled, we could be required to reconfigure our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. 16 Table of Contents Litigation concerning our food quality, our employment practices, liquor liability, and other issues could result in significant expenses to us and could divert resources from our operations. Like other restaurants, we may receive complaints or litigation from, and potential liability to, our guests involving food-borne illness or injury or other operational issues. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from, and potential liability to, our former, existing, or prospective employees involving our restaurant employment practices and procedures. In addition, we are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages, under “dram shop” statutes. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, our sales may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such claims. Such claims may also be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified restaurant employees, including restaurant general managers and kitchen managers, necessary to continue our operations and keep pace with our growth. This ability is especially critical to our company because of our relatively small number of existing restaurants and our current development plans. If we are unable to identity, and attract a sufficient number of qualified employees, we will be unable to open and operate the new locations called for by our development plans. Competition for qualified restaurant employees in our current or prospective markets could require us to pay higher wages and benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips for a significant portion of their income. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence, or health benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could increase our labor costs and reduce our operating margins. If general economic and political conditions worsen, consumer spending may decline, which would adversely affect our sales and results of operations. The restaurant industry is vulnerable to changes in economic and political conditions. In particular, future terrorist attacks and military and governmental responses and the prospect of future wars may exacerbate negative changes to economic conditions. When economic or political conditions worsen, our guests may reduce their level of discretionary spending. We believe that a decrease in discretionary spending could impact the frequency with which our guests choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. Additionally, a decrease in discretionary spending could adversely affect our ability to price our menu items at favorable levels, adversely affecting our sales and results of operations. Risks Related To Ownership Of Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. There has been no public market for our common stock prior to our initial public offering in August 2005, and an active and liquid public market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. This risk is particularly applicable to our common stock because of the thinly traded public market for our common 17 Table of Contents stock Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including but not limited to the following: • our or our competitors’ growth rates in the casual dining segment of the restaurant industry; • our or our competitors’ introduction of new restaurant locations, menu items, concepts, or pricing policies; • recruitment or departure of key restaurant operations or management personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that may choose to follow our stock; • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our restaurant operations or lawsuits filed against us; and • changes in our accounting principles or accounting estimates. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we also may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from our business as well as depress the price of our common stock. Our current principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval. Investors affiliated with our Chairman, Interim President, and Chief Executive Officer, Marcus Jundt, together beneficially own approximately 31.8% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, three of our directors (including Mr. Jundt) are affiliated with Mr. Jundt and Jundt Associates. As a result, Mr. Jundt has significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not our other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding 5,706,420 shares of common stock, all of which shares are either freely tradable or otherwise eligible for sale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have filed registration statements to register approximately 1,225,000 shares reserved for future issuance under our stock option plans and employee stock purchase plan. We have incurred increased costs as a result of being a public company, which may divert management attention from our business and impair our financial results. As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we are beginning to incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently 18 Table of Contents evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce accurate financial statements and on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. We have not been subject to these requirements in the past. The internal control report must contain (i) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (ii) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, (iii) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective, and (iv) a statement that our independent auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to dedicate internal resources, engage outside consultants, and adopt a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, we can provide no assurance as to our, or our independent auditors’, conclusions with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. There is a risk that neither we nor our independent auditors will be able to conclude within the prescribed timeframe that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Delaware law also imposes conditions on the voting of “control shares” and on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Since we do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, holders of our common stock may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to finance our restaurant operations and growth plans. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never 19 Table of Contents occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 