Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report and elsewhere in this report and include: • failures or interruptions of our systems and services; • security or privacy breaches; • loss of, or damage to, a data center; • termination, modification or non-renewal of our contracts to provide telephone number portability and other clearinghouse services; • adverse changes in statutes or regulations affecting the communications industry; • our failure to adapt to rapid technological change in the communications industry; • competition from our customers’ in-house systems or from other providers of addressing, interoperability or infrastructure services; • our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance at desired pricing levels; 13 • a decline in the volume of transactions we handle; • inability to manage our growth; • economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with our potential expansion into international markets; • inability to obtain sufficient capital to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion; and • loss of members of senior management, or inability to recruit and retain skilled employees. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Failures or interruptions of our clearinghouse could materially harm our revenue and impair our ability to conduct our operations. We provide addressing, interoperability and infrastructure services that are critical to the operations of our customers. Notably, our clearinghouse is essential to the orderly operation of the U.S. telecommunications system because it enables CSPs to ensure that telephone calls are routed to the appropriate destinations. Our system architecture is integral to our ability to process a high volume of transactions in a timely and effective manner. We could experience failures or interruptions of our systems and services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: • damage to, or failure of, our computer software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; • errors in the processing of data by our system; • computer viruses or software defects; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attacks, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events; • increased capacity demands or changes in systems requirements of our customers; or • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. If we cannot adequately protect the ability of our clearinghouse to perform consistently at a high level or otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations: • we may experience damage to our reputation, which may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers for our existing services, and may also make it more difficult for us to market our services; • we may be subject to significant damages claims, under our contracts or otherwise, including the requirement to pay substantial penalties related to service level requirements in our contracts; • our operating expenses or capital expenditures may increase as a result of corrective efforts that we must perform; • our customers may postpone or cancel subsequently scheduled work or reduce their use of our services; or • one or more of our significant contracts may be terminated early, or may not be renewed. Any of these consequences would adversely affect our revenue and performance. Security breaches could result in an interruption of service or reduced quality of service, which could increase our costs or result in a reduction in the use of our services by our customers. Our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or similar disruptive problems. If unauthorized users gain access to our databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify sensitive information that is stored or transmitted on our networks and that we are required by our contracts 14 and FCC rules to keep confidential. A security or privacy breach could result in an interruption of service or reduced quality of service, and we may be required to make significant expenditures in connection with corrective efforts we are required to perform. In addition, a security or privacy breach may harm our reputation and cause our customers to reduce their use of our services, which could harm our revenue and business prospects. The loss of, or damage to, a data center could interrupt our operations and materially harm our revenue and growth. Because virtually all of the services we provide require communications service providers to query a copy of our continuously updated databases and directories to obtain necessary routing and other essential operational data, the integrity of our data centers is essential to our business. We may not have sufficient redundant systems or back-up facilities to allow us to receive and process data in the event of a loss of, or damage to, a data center. We could lose, or suffer damage to, a data center in the event of power loss; natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes, floods and tornadoes; telecommunications failures, such as transmission cable cuts; or other similar events that could adversely affect our customers’ ability to access our clearinghouse. We may be required to make significant expenditures to repair or replace a data center. Further, as the scope of services we provide expands or changes, we may be required to make significant expenditures establish new data centers from which we may provide services. Any interruption to our operations due to the loss of, or damage to, a data center could harm our reputation and cause our customers to reduce their use of our services, which could harm our revenue and business prospects. The failure of the third-party software and equipment used by our customers or that we use to provide our services could cause interruptions or failures of our systems. We incorporate hardware, software and equipment developed by third parties in our clearinghouse. Our third-party vendors include, among others, IBM and Oracle Corporation for database systems and software, and EMC Corporation and Sun Microsystems, Inc. for equipment. Similarly, to access our clearinghouse and utilize our services, many of our customers rely on hardware, software and other equipment developed, supported and maintained by third-party providers. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide the connection between us and our customers through which we deliver and receive data. As a result, our ability to provide clearinghouse services depends in part on the continued performance and support of the third-party products and services on which we and our customers rely. If these products or services experience failures or have defects and the third parties that supply the products or services fail to provide adequate support, this could result in or exacerbate an interruption or failure of our systems or services. In some cases, failures of third party products or services could subject us to significant damages claims under the service level requirements in our contracts, for which we would have limited or no recourse against the third party who supplied such products or services. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC represent in the aggregate a substantial portion of our revenue, are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us, and we may be unable to renew these contracts at the end of their term. Our seven contracts with North American Portability Management LLC, an industry group that represents all telecommunications service providers in the United States, to provide telephone number portability and other clearinghouse services are not exclusive and could be terminated or modified in ways unfavorable to us. These seven separate contracts, each of which represented between 8.5% and 13.4% of our total revenue in 2006, represented in the aggregate approximately 74.9% of our total revenue in 2006. North American Portability Management LLC could, at any time, solicit or receive proposals from other providers to provide services that are the same as or similar to ours. In addition, these contracts have finite terms and are currently scheduled to expire in June 2015. Furthermore, any of these contracts could be terminated in advance of its scheduled expiration date in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default of these contracts. Although these contracts do not contain cross-default provisions, conditions leading to a default by us under one of our contracts could lead to a default under others, or all seven. We may be unable to renew these contracts on acceptable terms when they are being considered for renewal if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations, including for performance or other reasons, or if another provider offers to provide the same or similar services at a lower cost. In addition, competitive forces resulting from the 15 possible entrance of a competitive provider could create significant pricing pressure, which could then cause us to reduce the selling price of our services under our contracts. If these contracts are terminated or modified in a manner that is adverse to us, or if we are unable to renew these contracts on acceptable terms upon their expiration, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC contain provisions that may restrict our ability to use data that we administer in our clearinghouse, which may limit our ability to offer services that we currently, or intend to, offer. In addition to offering telephone number portability and other clearinghouse services under our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC, some of our service offerings not related to these contracts require that we use certain data from our clearinghouse. We have been informed by North American Portability Management LLC that they believe that use of this data, which is unrelated to our performance under these contracts, may not be permissible under the current agreements. If we are subject to burdensome terms of access or are not permitted to use this data, our ability to offer new services requiring the use of this data may be limited. Certain of our other contracts may be terminated or we may be unable to renew these contracts, which may reduce the number of services we can offer and damage our reputation. In addition to our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC, we rely on other contracts to provide other services that we offer, including the contracts that appoint us to serve as the: • North American Numbering Plan Administrator, under which we maintain the authoritative database of telephone numbering resources in North America; • National Pooling Administrator, under which we perform the administrative functions associated with the administration and management of telephone number inventory and allocation of pooled blocks of unassigned telephone numbers; • provider of number portability services in Canada; • operator of the .us registry; • operator of the .biz registry; and • operator of the registry of U.S. Common Short Codes. Each of these contracts provides for early termination in limited circumstances, most notably if we are in default. In addition, our contracts to serve as the North American Numbering Plan Administrator and as the National Pooling Administrator and to operate the .us registry, each of which is with the U.S. government, may be terminated by the government at will. If we fail to meet the expectations of the FCC, the U.S. Department of Commerce or our customers, as the case may be, for any reason, including for performance-related or other reasons, or if another provider offers to perform the same or similar services for a lower price, we may be unable to extend or renew these contracts. In that event, the number of services we are able to offer may be reduced, which would adversely affect our revenue from the provision of these services. Each of the contracts listed above establishes us as the sole provider of the particular services covered by that contract during its term. If one of these contracts were terminated, or if we were unable to renew or extend the term of any particular contract, we would no longer be able to provide the services covered by that contract and could suffer a loss of prestige that would make it more difficult for us to compete for contracts to provide similar services in the future. Failure to comply with neutrality requirements could result in loss of significant contracts. Pursuant to orders and regulations of the U.S. government and provisions contained in our material contracts, we must continue to comply with certain neutrality requirements, meaning generally that we cannot favor any particular telecommunications service provider, telecommunications industry segment or technology or group of telecommunications consumers over any other telecommunications service provider, industry segment, technology or group of consumers in the conduct of our business. The FCC oversees our compliance with the neutrality requirements applicable to us in connection with some of the services we provide. We provide to the FCC and the 16 North American Numbering Council, a federal advisory committee established by the FCC to advise and make recommendations on telephone numbering issues, regular certifications relating to our compliance with these requirements. Our ability to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject may be affected by the activities of our stockholders or other parties. For example, if the ownership of our capital stock subjects us to undue influence by parties with a vested interest in the outcome of numbering administration, the FCC could determine that we are not in compliance with our neutrality obligations. Our failure to continue to comply with the neutrality requirements to which we are subject under applicable orders and regulations of the U.S. government and commercial contracts may result in fines, corrective measures or termination of our contracts, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulatory and statutory changes that affect us or the communications industry in general may increase our costs or impair our growth. The FCC has regulatory authority over certain aspects of our operations, most notably our compliance with our neutrality requirements. We are also affected by business risks specific to the regulated communications industry. Moreover, the business of our customers is subject to regulation that indirectly affects our business. As communications technologies and the communications industry continue to evolve, the statutes governing the communications industry or the regulatory policies of the FCC may change. If this were to occur, the demand for our services could change in ways that we cannot easily predict and our revenue could decline. These risks include the ability of the federal government, most notably the FCC, to: • increase regulatory oversight over the services we provide; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs that are disadvantageous to the services we provide, or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that require modification of the terms of our existing contracts, including the manner in which we charge for certain of our services. For example, in November 2005, BellSouth Corporation filed a petition with the FCC seeking changes in the way our customers are billed for services provided by us under our contracts with North American Portability Management LLC; • prohibit us from entering into new contracts or extending existing contracts to provide services to the communications industry based on actual or suspected violations of our neutrality requirements, business performance concerns, or other reasons; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs in a way that could cause changes to our operations or costs or the operations of our customers; • appoint, or cause others to appoint, substitute or add additional parties to perform the services that we currently provide; and • prohibit or restrict the provision or export of new or expanded services under our contracts, or prevent the introduction of other services not under the contracts based upon restrictions within the contracts or in FCC policies. In addition, we are subject to risks arising out of the delegation of the Department of Commerce’s responsibilities for the domain name system to the ICANN. Changes in the regulations or statutes to which our customers are subject could cause our customers to alter or decrease the services they purchase from us. We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect future regulation or deregulation may have on our business. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change in the communications industry, we could lose customers or market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our addressing, interoperability and infrastructure services, and by developing new features, services and applications to meet 17 changing customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way. Our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. Although we currently provide our services primarily to traditional telecommunications companies, many existing and emerging companies are providing, or propose to provide, IP-based voice services. Our future revenue and profits will depend, in part, on our ability to provide services to IP-based service providers. For example, we are currently developing and conducting trial tests of SIP-IX, a comprehensive suite of services designed to enable direct network-to-network peering between trading partners for voice, video and content services using Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)-based technologies such as IP multimedia subsystem (IMS) and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). There can be no assurance that IP communications will grow in any meaningful fashion, or that SIP-IX will be adopted by potential customers, nor can we guarantee that we will be able to reach acceptable contract terms with customers to provide this service. In addition, we may experience delays in the development of one or more features of SIP-IX, which could materially reduce the potential benefits to us for providing this service. Our customers face implementation and support challenges in introducing IP-based services, which may slow their rate of adoption or implementation of our solutions. We have limited or no control over the pace at which communications service providers implement new, complex services, such as instant messaging and other IP-based communications. Moreover, the launch of new IP-based services by communications service providers requires significant capital expenditures by our customers to market and drive adoption by end users. We cannot control the decision over whether such capital expenditures will occur or the timing of such expenditures. In turn, even if CSPs attempt to drive adoption of new IP-based services, our future revenue and profits will also depend, in part, on the wide adoption of such services by end users. The failure of, or delay by, communications service providers to introduce and support IP-based services utilizing our solutions in a timely and effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The market for certain of our addressing, interoperability, and infrastructure services is competitive, which could result in fewer customer orders, reduced revenue or margins or loss of market share. Our services frequently compete against the legacy in-house systems of our customers. In addition, although we are not a telecommunications service provider, we compete in some areas against communications service companies, communications software companies and system integrators that provide systems and services used by CSPs to manage their networks and internal operations in connection with telephone number portability, instant messaging and other communications transactions. We face competition from large, well-funded providers of addressing, interoperability and infrastructure services. Moreover, we are aware of other companies that are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing services that will compete with us. We anticipate continued growth of competition. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Also, many of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition that they can use to their advantage. Increased competition could result in fewer customer orders, reduced revenue, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. Our technology relies in part on the use of open standards, which makes us vulnerable to competition. We frequently integrate our technology, particularly in the area of instant messaging, with the systems of our CSP customers and with communications devices through the use of open standards. If we are unable to integrate our technology with systems used by our customers or device manufacturers because they do not adopt open standards or otherwise, our revenue may decline. In addition, the failure of, or delay by, the communications industry to create open standards and protocols could have an adverse effect on the communications market in general and, consequently, our business and operating results. Conversely, the proliferation of open standards and protocols could make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce products that compete with our solutions, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 18 Our intellectual property could be misappropriated, which could force us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Our ability to compete and continue to provide technological innovation is substantially dependent upon internally developed technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights in such technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, technology or trademarks. Effectively policing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. Our services and solutions may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, subjecting us to claims for infringement, payment of license royalties, or other damages. Our services and solutions may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, subjecting us to claims for infringement, payment of license royalties, or other remedies. As we expand our business and introduce new services and solutions, there may be an increased risk of infringement and other intellectual property claims by third parties. From time to time, we and our customers may receive claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or may become aware of certain third party patents that may relate to our services and solutions. For example, our instant messaging solutions are designed to conform to Open Mobile Alliance, or OMA, specifications and those of other standards bodies. To the extent that any individual or organization that has contributed intellectual property to OMA or other standards bodies claims that it has retained its rights relating to such intellectual property, we may be subject to claims of infringement by such individuals or organizations, some of which have greater financial resources and larger intellectual property portfolios than our own. Additionally, some of our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement of our intellectual property embedded in their products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved, and the number of parties holding intellectual property within the communications industry, increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, the commercial success of our services and solutions may increase the risk that an infringement claim may be made against us. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us or against a customer for which we have an obligation to defend could result in costly litigation, the payment of substantial damages, and an injunction that prohibits us from continuing to offer the service or solution in question. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance at desired pricing levels could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. Our competitors and customers may cause us to reduce the prices we charge for our services and solutions. The primary sources of pricing pressure include: • competitors offering our customers services at reduced prices, or bundling and pricing services in a manner that makes it difficult for us to compete. For example, a competing provider of interoperability services might offer its services at lower rates than we do, or a competing domain name registry provider may reduce its prices for domain name registration; • customers with a significant volume of transactions may have enhanced leverage in pricing negotiations with us; and • if our prices are too high, potential customers may find it economically advantageous to handle certain functions internally instead of using us. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of transactions we handle or the number of customers we serve, by generating higher revenue from enhanced services or by reducing our costs. 19 A decline in the volume of transactions we handle could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We earn revenue for the vast majority of the services that we provide on a per transaction basis. There are no minimum revenue requirements in our contracts, which means that there is no limit to the potential adverse effect on our revenue from a decrease in our transaction volumes. As a result, if industry participants reduce their usage of our services from their current levels, our revenue and results of operations will suffer. For example, consolidation in the industry could result in a decline in transactions if the remaining CSPs decide to handle changes to their networks internally rather than use the services that we provide. Moreover, if customer churn between CSPs in the industry stabilizes or declines, or if CSPs do not compete vigorously to lure customers away from their competitors, use of our telephone number portability and other services may decline. If CSPs develop internal systems to address their infrastructure needs, or if the cost of such transactions makes it impractical for a given carrier to use our services for these purposes, we may experience a reduction in transaction volumes. If instant messaging is not broadly adopted by the end users serviced by our customers, revenue from our instant messaging solutions will be adversely impacted. Finally, the trends that we believe will drive the future demand for our clearinghouse services, such as the emergence of IP services, growth of wireless services, consolidation in the industry, and pressure on carriers to reduce costs, may not actually result in increased demand for our services, which would harm our future revenue and growth prospects. If we are unable to manage our growth, our revenue and profits could be adversely affected. Our business was founded in 1996 and we have experienced substantial growth since our inception. Sustaining our growth has placed significant demands on our management as well as on our administrative, operational and financial resources. For us to continue to manage our growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth without compromising our quality of service and our profit margins, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, we may experience higher turnover in our customer base and our revenue and profits could be adversely affected. We may be unable to complete suitable acquisitions, or we may undertake acquisitions that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive to our business. We have made a number of acquisitions in the past, and one of our strategies is to pursue acquisitions selectively in the future. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or to finance acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to us. Even if we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate and pursue an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in the incurrence of additional leverage or dilution to our stockholders. Acquisitions involve significant risks. In 2006 alone, we acquired UltraDNS Corporation and Followap Inc. If we fail to successfully integrate and support the operations of acquired businesses, or if anticipated revenue enhancements and cost savings are not realized, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be exacerbated by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds, integrating systems, products or technologies, integrating internal controls, procedures and policies and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates, and we may be required to invest significant capital and resources after acquisition to integrate, maintain or grow the businesses that we acquire. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of goodwill or intangible assets in connection with acquisitions, which could reduce our future reported earnings. We also run the risk of failing to retain key employees of an acquired business or existing key employees. Further, at times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities, neutrality-related risks or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition, and the 20 failure to discover such issues prior to such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our expansion into international markets may be subject to uncertainties that could increase our costs to comply with regulatory requirements in foreign jurisdictions, disrupt our operations, and require increased focus from our management. We recently acquired Followap Inc., a UK-based enterprise, and we intend to pursue international business opportunities in the future. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including economic and political risks in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or seek to operate, the difficulty of enforcing contracts and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and the difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. For example, our instant messaging solutions currently target international markets almost exclusively. Risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • differing technology standards and pace of adoption; • export restrictions on encryption and other technologies; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; • increased competition by local, regional, or global companies; and • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods. While we attempt to hedge our currency risk, we may be unable to do so effectively. In addition, international sales could decline due to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements applicable to our business, or differences in foreign laws and regulations, including foreign tax, intellectual property, labor and contract law. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. Our senior management is important to our customer relationships, and the loss of one or more of our senior managers could have a negative impact on our business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Ganek, and other members of our senior management. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team have established and maintain with our customers and our regulators contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations. The loss of Jeffrey Ganek or any other member of senior management could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise to manage our business. We must recruit and retain skilled employees to succeed in our business, and our failure to recruit and retain qualified employees could harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. We believe that an integral part of our success is our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced skills in the services and solutions that we provide and who work well with our customers in the regulated environment in which we operate. In particular, we must hire and retain employees with the technical expertise and industry knowledge necessary to maintain and continue to develop our operations and must effectively manage our growing sales and marketing organization to ensure the growth of our operations. Our future success depends on the ability of our sales and marketing organization to establish direct sales channels and to develop multiple distribution channels with Internet service providers and other third parties. The employees with the skills we require are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and 21 retain a sufficient number of these employees at all levels, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. Our ability to access additional capital in the future may be limited. We have historically relied on outside financing and cash flow from operations to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. We may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in equipment or infrastructure, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. However, our neutrality requirements may limit or prohibit our ability to obtain debt or equity financing by restricting the ability of certain parties from acquiring our stock or our debt, or the amount that such parties may acquire. In addition, additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Further, the terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may: • not be able to continue to meet customer demand for service quality, availability and competitive pricing; • be forced to reduce our operations; • not be able to expand or acquire complementary businesses; and • not be able to develop new services or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock may fluctuate widely. Fluctuations in the market price of our Class A common stock could be caused by many things, including: • our perceived prospects, including the impact of acquisitions or potential acquisitions, and the prospects of the communications and Internet industry in general; • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • changes in general valuations for communications companies; • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business; • sales of our Class A common stock by our officers, directors or principal stockholders; • sales of significant amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur; • sales of our Class A common stock due to a required divestiture under the terms of our certificate of incorporation; and • changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Each of these factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general and the shares of technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise enable holders of less than a majority of our voting securities to elect some of our directors; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following election; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • disqualify any individual from serving on our board if such individual’s service as a director would cause us to violate our neutrality requirements; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In order to comply with our neutrality requirements, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership and transfer restrictions relating to telecommunications service providers and their affiliates, which may inhibit potential acquisition bids that our stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be lower as a result. In order to comply with neutrality requirements imposed by the FCC in its orders and rules, no entity that qualifies as a “telecommunications service provider” or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider, as such terms are defined under the Communications Act of 1934 and FCC rules and orders, may beneficially own 5% or more of our capital stock. As a result, subject to limited exceptions, our certificate of incorporation prohibits any telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider from beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding capital stock. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation provides that: • if one of our stockholders experiences a change in status or other event that results in the stockholder violating this restriction, or if any transfer of our stock occurs that, if effective, would violate the 5% restriction, we may elect to purchase the excess shares (i.e., the shares that cause the violation of the restriction) or require that the excess shares be sold to a third party whose ownership will not violate the restriction; • pending a required divestiture of these excess shares, the holder whose beneficial ownership violates the 5% restriction may not vote the shares in excess of the 5% threshold; and 23 • if our board of directors, or its permitted designee, determines that a transfer, attempted transfer or other event violating this restriction has taken place, we must take whatever action we deem advisable to prevent or refuse to give effect to the transfer, including refusal to register the transfer, disregard of any vote of the shares by the prohibited owner, or the institution of proceedings to enjoin the transfer. Our board of directors has the authority to make determinations as to whether any particular holder of our capital stock is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. Any person who acquires, or attempts or intends to acquire, beneficial ownership of our stock that will or may violate this restriction must notify us as provided in our certificate of incorporation. In addition, any person who becomes the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our stock must notify us and certify that such person is not a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. If a 5% stockholder fails to supply the required certification, we are authorized to treat that stockholder as a prohibited owner — meaning, among other things, that we may elect to purchase the excess shares or require that the excess shares be sold to a third party whose ownership will not violate the restriction. We may request additional information from our stockholders to ensure compliance with this restriction. Our board will treat any “group,” as that term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as a single person for purposes of applying the ownership and transfer restrictions in our certificate of incorporation. Nothing in our certificate of incorporation restricts our ability to purchase shares of our capital stock. If a purchase by us of shares of our capital stock results in a stockholder’s percentage interest in our outstanding capital stock increasing to over the 5% threshold, such stockholder must deliver the required certification regarding such stockholder’s status as a telecommunications service provider or affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. In addition, to the extent that a repurchase by us of shares of our capital stock causes any stockholder to violate the restrictions on ownership and transfer contained in our certificate of incorporation, that stockholder will be subject to all of the provisions applicable to prohibited owners, including required divestiture and loss of voting rights. These restrictions and requirements may: • discourage industry participants that might have otherwise been interested in acquiring us from making a tender offer or proposing some other form of transaction that could involve a premium price for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders; and • discourage investment in us by other investors who are telecommunications service providers or who may be deemed to be affiliates of a telecommunications service provider. The standards for determining whether an entity is a “telecommunications service provider” are established by the FCC. In general, a telecommunications service provider is an entity that offers telecommunications services to the public at large, and is, therefore, providing telecommunications services on a common carrier basis. Moreover, a party will be deemed to be an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider if that party controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a telecommunications service provider. A party is deemed to control another if that party, directly or indirectly: • owns 10% or more of the total outstanding equity of the other party; • has the power to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of the directors or management of the other party; or • has the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the other party. The standards for determining whether an entity is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider and the rules applicable to telecommunications service providers and their affiliates are complex and may be subject to change. Each stockholder is responsible for notifying us if it is a telecommunications service provider or an affiliate of a telecommunications service provider. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 