Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is very risky. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with all other information in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently foreseeable to us may also impair our business operations. GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS Our rapid growth may strain our resources. Our revenues increased by 85% for the year ended December 31, 2009 versus the year ended December 31, 2008, and 85% in 2008 over 2007; however, it is unlikely that we will maintain such growth in the long term and cannot assure any growth of our business for any period. Our rapid expansion will place significant strain on our management and our operational, accounting, and information systems. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial controls, operating procedures, and management information systems. We will also need to effectively hire, train, motivate, and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the profits we expect. 10 Our debt may constrict our operations, and cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our indebtedness and future indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $9.1 million debt outstanding under our Guaranteed Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes (the “Notes”) issued in August 2006. Additionally, our PRC subsidiaries had a total of approximately $48.8 miilion loans outstanding as of December 31, 2009. These loans were obtained from local PRC banks, our noncontrolling shareholders, and also unrelated individual companies. They are used to support our working capital. These obligations could have important consequences to you. For example, they could: · reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate requirements; · expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate for the Notes is variable; and · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows, and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital, restructure our debt, or declare bankruptcy. Furthermore, our obligations under the Notes are secured by our shares of Advanced Electric Motors, Inc., our Delaware subsidiary through which we own our PRC operating subsidiaries. These security interests could result in our loss of the business, if we default on the Notes. Covenants in the Indenture governing our Notes and the Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the Notes were initially sold, restrict our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. Our “Notes” were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of August 30, 2006, between us and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. The Indenture contains various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue preferred stock of subsidiaries, create liens on our assets to secure debt, make capital expenditures, incur additional indebtedness and pay dividends. The Indenture also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. The Purchase Agreement dated August 29, 2006, pursuant to which the Notes were initially sold, provides that the initial purchasers of the Notes and their assignees have a right of first offer for so long as such persons continue to hold any Notes with respect to any issuances of new equity securities by us other than shares of stock issued to employees, officers and directors pursuant to bona fide employee benefit plans. This right of first offer contained in the Purchase Agreement could adversely impact our ability to do future equity offerings. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of the members of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could impede implementation of our business plan and result in reduced profitability. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our officers or employees. Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical sales and marketing customer support. Because of the rapid growth of the economy in China, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. We depend on the supply of raw materials and key component parts, and any adverse changes in such supply or the costs of raw materials may adversely affect our operations. One, two, and five major vendors provided approximately 16%, 39%, and 80% of the Company’s purchases of raw materials for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Any material change in the spot and forward rates could have a material adverse effect on the cost of our raw materials and on our operations. In addition, if we need alternative sources for key component parts for any reason, these component parts may not be immediately available to us. If alternative suppliers are not immediately available, we will have to identify and qualify alternative suppliers, and production of these components may be delayed. We may not be able to find an adequate alternative supplier in a reasonable time period or on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Shipments of affected products have been limited or delayed as a result of such problems in the past, and similar problems could occur in the future. An inability to obtain our key source supplies for the manufacture of our products might require us to delay shipments of products, harm customer relationships or force us to curtail or cease operations. 11 We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operation. While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including: · unscheduled maintenance outages; · prolonged power failures; · an equipment failure; · disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks; · fires, floods, earthquakes, or other catastrophes; and · other operational problems. We may not be able to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual property, which could weaken our competitive position. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to develop and market electric motor products. We have been granted 20 patents in China relating to linear motor and automobile specialty micro-motor applications. No assurance can be given that such patents will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that such intellectual property rights will provide a competitive advantage to us. The implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property laws historically have not been vigorous or consistent, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and a relative lack of developed enforcement mechanisms. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in the PRC are not as effective as in the United States and other countries. Policing the unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation will require significant expenditures of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, competitive position, business prospects and reputation. In addition, since we have chosen to secure patents only in China, we may not be in a position to protect our inventions and technology in other countries in which we sell our product, which could result in increased competition and lower pricing for our products. RISKS RELATING TO DOING BUSINESS IN THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA China’s economic policies could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, it has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of China has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing market forces for economic reform, reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. 12 PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain and any changes in such laws and regulations may harm our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws and, as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. The PRC economy has experienced rapid growth. Rapid economic growth could lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the cost of supplies, it may harm our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credit, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such policies can lead to a slowing of economic growth. Rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in China which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products. PRC regulations relating to mergers, offshore companies, and Chinese stockholders, if applied to us, may limit our ability to operate our business as we see fit. Regulations govern the process by which we may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the new regulation will require Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to various government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the PRC regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions in China through our Chinese subsidiaries has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate transactions that are acceptable to us or sufficiently protective of our interests in a transaction. If preferential tax concessions granted by the PRC government change or expire, our financial results and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operation may be adversely affected by changes to or expiration of preferential tax concessions that our Chinese subsidiaries currently enjoy. The statutory tax rate generally applicable to domestic Chinese companies was 33% before January 1, 2008. On January 1, 2008, the new Chinese Enterprise Income Tax (“EIT”) law replaced the existing laws for Domestic Enterprises (“DES”), such as Weihai Tech Full and Xi’an Tech Full Simo, and Foreign Invested Enterprises (“FIEs”), such as Harbin Tech Full, Shanghai Tech Full, and Advanced Automation Group Shanghai, Ltd. The new standard EIT rate of 25% is now applicable to both DES and FIEs. The PRC government provides reduced tax rates for productive foreign investment enterprises in the Economic and Technological Development Zones and for enterprises engaged in production or business operations in the Special Economic Zones. These preferential tax rates are generally graduated, starting at 0% and increasing to the standard EIT rate of 25% over time. Our operations under Harbin Tech Full were subject to a 10% preferential tax rate until December 31, 2010. Our operations under Shanghai Tech Full was subject to 0% preferential tax rate in 2008 and 2009 and will be subject to 11% in 2010, 12% in 2011, 12.5% in 2012, and 25% thereafter. Our operations under Xi’an Tech Full Simo were subject to a 15% preferential tax rate. As a result, the estimated tax savings for the year ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to approximately $8.6 million, $6.0 million, and $10.3 million, respectively. Tax laws in China are subject to interpretations by relevant tax authorities. Preferential tax rates may not remain in effect or may change, in which case we may be required to pay the higher income tax rate generally applicable to Chinese companies, or such other rate as is required by the laws of China. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB. Any significant fluctuation in value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. Although we inform our personnel that such practices are illegal, we cannot assure you that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties. 13 The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those related to taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations and interpretations. Government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the PRC. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the PRC. Any failure by us to comply fully with such laws and regulations will result in us being subject to penalties and fines or being required to pay damages. Although we believe we are currently in compliance with the environmental regulations in all material respects, any change in the regulations may require us to acquire equipment or incur additional capital expenditure or costs in order to comply with such regulations. Our profits will be adversely affected if we are unable to pass on such additional costs to our customers. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. The PRC historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in the PRC. Because most of our executive officers and several of our directors, including our chairman of the Board of Directors, are Chinese citizens, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us and/or our officers and directors by a stockholder or group of stockholders in the United States. Also, because the majority of our assets are located in the PRC, it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against us in the U.S. court. The legal system in China has inherent uncertainties that may limit the legal protections available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. The legal system in China is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the central government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. As China’s foreign investment laws and regulations are relatively new and the legal system is still evolving, the interpretation of many laws, regulations and rules is not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Although an active trading market has developed for our common stock, there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will be sustained. Failure to maintain an active trading market for our common stock may adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock in short time periods, or at all. In addition, sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has experienced, and may experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 14 We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Presently, we intend to retain all of our earnings, if any, to finance development and expansion of our business. The Indenture pursuant to which the Notes were issued prohibits us from paying any dividends on our capital stock while the Notes remain outstanding. PRC capital and currency regulations may also limit our ability to pay dividends. Consequently, the only opportunity for investors to achieve a positive return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. Our directors and officers control approximately one third of our common stock and, as a result, they may exercise some voting control and be able to take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our directors and executive officers, directly or through entities that they control, beneficially owned, as a group, approximately 35.08% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009. This concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive a disadvantage in owning shares in a company with one or several controlling stockholders. Furthermore, our directors and officers, as a group, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Subject to any applicable stockholder approval requirements imposed by the Nasdaq Stock Market, our board of directors has the authority to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock. Issuances of common stock would reduce your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 