ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when considering an investment decision with respect to our securities. All material risks currently known to management are described below. The occurrence of any of the events discussed in the risk factors below could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flow, and the impact could be compounded if multiple risks were to occur. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the viability of our supply base. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend on, among other things, general economic conditions and consumer spending and preferences. Consumer spending and preferences can be affected by a number of issues, including employment levels, changes in expendable income due to the pace of wage growth and changes in personal tax rates, fuel costs, real estate values, the availability of consumer financing and concerns about the economy. As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. Production levels in Europe and North America most notably affect us given our concentration of sales in those regions, which accounted for 41% and 36%, respectively, of our 2013 sales. Throughout Europe, despite signs of stabilization, consumer demand remains weak. European vehicle sales and production levels, which declined in 2012, remained at historically low levels in 2013 and excess automotive manufacturing capacity continues to exist. This has negatively impacted our sales and led to restructuring efforts by us and others in the region. However, high levels of fixed costs and long lead times in Europe can make it difficult to adjust our cost base to the extent necessary, or to make such adjustments on a timely basis, impacting our profitability. Restructuring actions beyond those currently anticipated could also be required. A significant downturn in the automotive industry, whether in Europe or elsewhere, could also result in impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements, given that our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled $2,052 million, or approximately 17% of our total assets, as of December 31, 2013. Reduced European sales and production levels and any resulting cost-cutting and downsizing actions implemented by us or others in our industry could also have a negative economic effect on our supply base. In addition, rapidly changing industry conditions such as volatile production volumes and other factors can also adversely affect our supply chain. Such impacts on our suppliers could negatively affect our business through inability to meet our commitments (or inability to meet them without excess expense) because of our suppliers' inability to perform. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States, and expanding our operations in certain emerging markets such as China and Brazil and building our business relationships with Asian automotive manufacturers are important elements of our growth strategy. Operations outside of the United States, particularly operations in emerging markets, are subject to various risks which may not be present or as significant for operations within U.S. markets, and our exposure to these risks increases as we expand. Government actions in markets subject to governmental control, both in terms of policy-setting as well as actions directly affecting our operations could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows in those areas. Risks inherent in our international operations include: exposure to local economic conditions, such as those currently existing in Europe; wage inflation in emerging markets; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions, particularly in certain European countries; increases in 11 Table of Contents working capital requirements related to long supply chains or regional terms of business; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations such as the recent depreciation of the Brazilian real; currency exchange controls; restrictive governmental actions such as restrictions on transfer or repatriation of funds; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; import or export licensing requirements; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; trade protection matters; restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; increased risk of corruption; changes in laws and regulations, including those of the United States affecting trade and foreign investment; more expansive legal rights of foreign labor unions; the potential for expropriations of property; exposure to local public health concerns and the resultant impact on economic and political conditions; the potential instability of foreign governments and unsettled social and political conditions in general; and possible terrorist attacks, drug cartel related violence such as in Mexico or acts of war or hostilities from local populations. Certain regions, including Asia and Latin America, are more economically and politically volatile and, as a result, our business units that operate in these regions could be subject to significant fluctuations in sales and operating income. Further, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Our non-U.S. operations include joint ventures and other alliances, most significantly in the Asia-Pacific region. Additional risks characteristic of these arrangements include the risk of conflicts arising between us and our joint venture partners and the lack of unilateral control of management. We also risk circumstances where our joint venture partner may fail to satisfy its obligations, which could result in increased liabilities to us. Further, our ability to repatriate funds may be constrained by the terms of particular agreements with our joint venture partners. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations and, therefore, on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which may become more pronounced as we expand further in these areas. If our current expansion efforts are not successfully implemented, they may adversely impact our business and results of operations. We are continuing our current expansion phase, in order to support our future business based upon new business awards. This expansion, which is our most significant since we became a public company, involves increased capital expenditures and includes the building or expansion of multiple plants. Achievement of the benefits of the expansion is dependant in part on our ability to successfully manage the demands placed on our management resources and engineering and quality teams with respect to not only the building or modification of the physical plants, but also the simultaneous launch of a sizable number of new programs. Our ability to manage the various expansion projects simultaneously may be challenged by factors beyond our control, such as the ability to hire a sufficient number of qualified personnel, particularly additional engineers to support new technologies, in the locations required at a cost that does not significantly exceed the cost anticipated when we quoted the business. Further, due to the long lead time required to support production under awarded future business from vehicle manufacturers, we must commit substantial resources and incur significant costs before we receive the benefit of the revenue from that business, which will impact our profitability. If the production levels for the new business fall short of the levels anticipated or the timing of that production changes, due to lack of commercial success of one or more particular vehicle models or otherwise, we may not realize all of the future sales expected for the awarded business, and we may have difficulty recouping the costs expended in the expansion. 12 Table of Contents Developments related to antitrust investigations by government regulators could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern our business both in the United States and internationally, including those relating to competition (antitrust). Antitrust authorities, including those in the United States and Europe, are investigating possible violations of competition (antitrust) laws by automotive parts suppliers (referred to herein as the "Antitrust Investigations"). The U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ") initiated an investigation into our Occupant Safety Systems business in June 2011, which was concluded when the court approved a plea agreement between one of our German subsidiaries and the DOJ. Also in June 2011 the European Commission initiated an Antitrust Investigation which includes the Company, among others, and which is ongoing. While the duration and outcome of the European Commission's investigation is uncertain, a determination that the Company has violated European competition (antitrust) laws could result in significant penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. European competition law investigations often continue for several years and have resulted in the imposition of significant fines by the European Commission, in some cases, for violations at other companies. At this point, we cannot estimate the ultimate financial impact resulting from the European investigation. However, developments related to such investigations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. Continuing pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our profitability. Pricing pressure in the automotive supply industry has been substantial and is likely to continue. Vehicle manufacturers possess significant leverage over their suppliers, including us, because the automotive supply industry is highly competitive, serves a limited number of customers, and has a high fixed cost base. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the contract. Estimating such amounts is subject to uncertainties because any price reductions are a result of negotiations with our customers and other factors. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins in the past. If we are not able to offset price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may adversely affect our sales and profitability in the future. We face significant global competition that could adversely affect our sales, profitability and financial condition. The global automotive supply industry is highly competitive. We compete with other automotive suppliers on the basis of technological innovation, quality, delivery, price, program launch support and overall customer service, among other things. Our competitors include a number of domestic and international suppliers, some of which have established strong relationships with significant vehicle manufacturers. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in large part, on our ability to continue to innovate and manufacture products that have commercial success with consumers, differentiate our products from those of our competitors, continue to deliver quality products in the time frames required by our customers, leverage our global footprint and maintain low-cost production. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our own, produce products similar to ours at a lower cost or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements or consumer preferences. Furthermore, establishing a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. While the automotive supply market in China is already highly competitive, as the size of the Chinese market continues to increase, additional competitors may seek to enter the Chinese market, and may act aggressively to establish their market share, increasing the competitiveness further. Competition can lead to price reductions, reduced margins and an inability to gain or hold market share. If we are unable to compete successfully, our sales, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents A disruption in our information technology ("IT") systems could adversely impact our business and operations. We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our IT systems, some of which are managed or housed by third parties, and our ability to continually update these systems in response to the changing needs of our business. We have incurred costs and may incur significant additional costs in order to implement the security measures that we feel are appropriate to protect our IT systems. However, despite the security measures we had implemented, unauthorized access to certain of our systems was detected in November 2012. Although we found no evidence that any data was actually taken and the functionality of our systems was unaffected, future attacks could result in our systems or data being breached and/or damaged by computer viruses or unauthorized physical or electronic access. Such a breach could result in not only business disruption, but also theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets and/or unauthorized access to controlled data and personal information stored in connection with our human resources function. Any interruption, outage or breach of our IT systems could adversely affect our business operations. Further, as we continue to increase our use of centralized Shared Service Centers for efficiency purposes, the significance of any interruption or breach of the related IT systems will increase. To the extent that any data is lost or destroyed or any confidential information is inappropriately disclosed or used, it could adversely affect our competitive position or customer relationships, harm our business and possibly lead to claims or liability based upon alleged breaches of contract or applicable laws. We could be adversely affected by any shortage of supplies causing a production disruption. We, our customers, or other suppliers may experience supply shortages of, or delays in the supply of, components or raw materials. This could be caused by a number of factors, including insufficient production line capacity for a particular product or manpower or working capital constraints or other factors, including weather emergencies and natural or man-made disasters impacting the accessibility of raw materials or components, labor or social/political unrest, commercial disputes, public health concerns or acts of terrorism or other hostilities. Due to the industry's reliance on "just-in-time" delivery of components during the assembly and manufacture of vehicles, oftentimes only minimal inventories of supplies are readily available. Further, if an issue arises, many components cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier due to, among other things, long lead times to full production, the unavailability of other suppliers or demands imposed by alternative suppliers. Although we consider the production capacities, financial condition and physical locations of suppliers in our selection process, there is no assurance that the foregoing factors will not result in any shortages or delays. Further, we and others in our industry have been rationalizing and consolidating our supply base in order to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods and services and, due to the turbulence in the automotive industry, several suppliers have ceased operations. As a result, there is greater dependence on fewer sources of supply for certain components and materials. Further, many suppliers downsized significantly during the economic downturn and may face capacity constraints as the industry recovery progresses or liquidity issues in light of economic pressures. These factors could increase the possibility of a supply shortage of a particular component or material. Similarly, if any of our customers experience a material supply shortage, either directly or as a result of a disruption at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Such production interruptions could impede a ramp-up in vehicle production and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers, lost a significant portion of their business, or if their production levels significantly declined, particularly with respect to models for which we are a significant supplier. In general, our financial results are more closely correlated to production by Volkswagen as well as the Detroit Three (defined as Chrysler Group LLC, Ford Motor Company and General Motors Company, combined), given our higher sales content with these manufacturers. For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales to these customers, which represent our four largest customer groups on a worldwide basis, were approximately 63% of our total sales. Although business with each customer is typically split among numerous contracts, if we lost a major customer or a major customer significantly reduced its purchases of our products, there could be a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by decreases in the businesses or market share of any of our largest customers. Further, because our customers typically have no obligation to purchase a specific quantity of parts, a decline in their production levels on vehicle platforms where we provide significant content or there is significant volume could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Their production levels could decline due to the lack of commercial success of a particular vehicle or platform or a temporary or prolonged sales mix shift based upon changing consumer preferences, customer incentives, changing customer inventory levels, production disruptions or other events. Our ability to reduce the risks inherent in certain concentrations of business and thereby maintain our financial performance going forward will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to diversify our sales on a customer, product and geographic basis. While we are pursuing an expansion strategy focused on the Chinese market, no assurances can be given as to how successful we will be in doing so. As a result, if any of the factors described above causes any of our largest customers to halt or significantly reduce purchases of our products, it would harm our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar, as well as other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, could materially impact our results of operations. In 2013, approximately 71% of our sales originated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. This translation is based on average exchange rates during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Separately, while we generally produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, our sales are more concentrated in U.S. dollars and in euros than our expenses, and therefore our profit margins and earnings could be reduced due to fluctuations or adverse trends in foreign currency exchange rates. While we employ financial instruments to hedge certain of these exposures, this does not insulate us completely from currency fluctuation effects. We may incur material losses and costs in connection with our contingent liabilities and tax matters. We are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings that, from time to time, are significant. These proceedings typically involve claims that arise in the normal course of business, including commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, product liability claims including asbestos claims, environmental issues, tax matters and employment matters. We are also subject to a pending antitrust investigation in the European Union that is addressed in another risk factor above. 15 Table of Contents In our business we have an inherent risk of product liability and warranty claims. We have been required to participate in product recalls, and are likely to do so in the future. Vehicle manufacturers have experienced a higher level of recall campaigns in recent years, and often seek contribution from their suppliers when faced with product liability, warranty and recall claims. In addition, we have been subject to continuing efforts by our customers to change contract terms and conditions concerning warranty and recall participation. Further, as vehicle manufacturers lengthen their warranty commitments to consumers and the affected vehicles age, warranty claims may increase. Finally, our costs to defend certain product liability cases have increased due to the bankruptcies of Chrysler LLC and General Motors Corporation. Our recorded liabilities and estimates of reasonably possible losses for our contingent liabilities are based on our assessment of potential liability using the information available to us at the time and, as applicable, any past experience and trends with respect to similar matters. However, litigation is inherently uncertain, and such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in many jurisdictions could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets. Additionally, changes in tax laws in the U.S. or in other countries where we have operations could adversely affect deferred tax assets and liabilities and the overall provision for income taxes. Further, we are subject to tax audits by governmental authorities in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions, which are inherently uncertain. Negative or unexpected results from one or more such tax audits or changes to tax laws governing the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and financial condition. For further information regarding our contingent liabilities and tax matters, refer to Notes 17 and 8, respectively, of our consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, this could have a material adverse impact on our business and our competitive position. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. Further, as we expand our operations in jurisdictions where the protection of intellectual property rights is less robust, such as China where we have built a new research and development facility, the risk of others duplicating our proprietary technologies increases, despite efforts we undertake to protect them. As we adopt new technologies, we face an inherent risk of exposure to the claims of others that we have allegedly violated their intellectual property rights. We have faced legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and will continue to face such challenges, which we vigorously defend. Although management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position, there can be no assurance that multiple patents and other intellectual property rights will not be invalidated or circumvented by third parties. As a result, developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect these rights, could materially adversely impact our business and our competitive position. Commodity inflationary pressures may adversely affect our profitability and the viability of our Tier 2 and Tier 3 supply base. Despite the stabilization over the past year in the cost of most of the commodities we use in our business, we remain susceptible to commodity inflationary pressures. These pressures have in the past, 16 Table of Contents and may again in the future, put significant operational and financial burdens on us and our suppliers, potentially resulting in declining margins and operating results. It is generally difficult to pass the full extent of increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers and, even if passed through to some extent, the recovery is typically on a delayed basis. Furthermore, our suppliers may not be able to handle the commodity cost increases. The unstable condition of some of our suppliers or their failure to perform has in the past caused us to incur additional costs which negatively impacted certain of our businesses. If inflationary pressures return, our suppliers may not be able to perform as we expect, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Governmental regulations increase our costs and could adversely affect our business, reputation and results of operations. Our global operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business. Compliance with the various laws and regulations increases our cost of doing business and, in some cases, restricts our ability to conduct business. These regulations are numerous and often inconsistent, and include: •The Transportation Recall Enhancement, Accountability and Documentation (or TREAD) Act with respect to reporting certain claims •Environmental and occupational health and safety legislation •Sanctioned country restrictions •Immigration and international trade, including import and export laws •Competition (or anti-trust) laws •Anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act •Conflict minerals requirements •U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act •Data privacy requirements •Tax laws •Accounting requirements The laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational safety and health, in particular, are complicated, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. We may not be in complete compliance with such laws and regulations at all times. As an owner and operator, we could also be responsible under some laws for responding to contamination detected at any of our operating sites or at third party sites to which our wastes were sent for disposal, regardless of whether we caused the contamination or the legality of the original activity. Our costs or liabilities relating to these matters may be more than the amount we have reserved and the difference may be material. Further, as we sell or close facilities around the world, environmental assessments and investigations will continue to be performed and additional costs related to remediation, demolition or decommissioning may result. Compliance with multiple laws and regulations increases our cost of doing business. Further, violations of laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, as well as prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Violations of environmental laws could also result in obligations to investigate or remediate contamination or third party property damage or personal injury claims 17 Table of Contents allegedly due to the migration of contaminants off-site. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or the facilities of our customers or those in our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to normal and ordinary labor negotiations or as a result of a specific labor dispute, a work stoppage may occur in our facilities or those of our customers or other suppliers. Actions taken to address negative industry trends in recent years, coupled with the industry recovery in North America, or social/political and economic pressures in Europe may have the effect of exacerbating labor relations problems which could increase the possibility of such a work stoppage. In addition, labor work stoppages by other groups on which the supply chain depends, such as port workers or other logistics groups, could also negatively impact us. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, either directly or as a result of a work stoppage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at our facilities or one of our own suppliers or others in the supply/delivery chain could limit or stop our production of or ability to deliver the affected products. Such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our pension and other postretirement benefits obligations are significant and the related expense and funding requirements of our pension plans could materially increase, reducing our profitability. We face the continuing burden of significant legacy pension and other postretirement liabilities. Although we have taken action to limit our future liabilities under certain of our defined benefit pension plans, including the two largest (our U.S. salaried pension plan and our U.K. pension plan have both been frozen), and have offered and bought out portions of our pension liabilities, a significant number of our employees and former employees remain entitled to benefits under defined benefit pension plans or retirement/termination indemnity plans. The obligations and expense recognized in our financial statements for these plans is actuarially determined based on certain assumptions which are driven by market conditions, including interest rates. Additionally, market conditions impact the underlying value of the assets held by the plans for settlement of these obligations. Further declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could negatively affect the funded status of these plans and the level and timing of required contributions in 2015 and beyond. Additionally, these factors could significantly increase our pension expense and reduce our profitability. See Note 9 of our consolidated financial statements for more information about these plans. We also sponsor other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") primarily in the United States and Canada. We fund our OPEB costs on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. We are subject to increased OPEB cash outlays and costs due to increasing health care costs, among other factors. Increases in the expected costs of health care in excess of current assumptions could increase our actuarially determined obligations and our related OPEB expense along with future cash outlays. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 