Risk Factors” for a description of risks inherent in such international operations. Available Company Information TRW Automotive Holdings Corp.’s Internet website is www.trw.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished 12 Table of Contents pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Standards of Conduct (our code of business conduct and ethics) are also available on our website and available in print to any shareholder who requests it. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A prolonged contraction in automotive sales and production could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and liquidity and on the viability of our supply base. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend, among other things, on general economic conditions and consumer spending and preferences (which can be affected by a number of issues including fuel costs and the availability of consumer financing). As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. Automotive sales and production deteriorated substantially in the second half of 2008 and are not expected to rebound significantly in the near term, which will have a continuing negative impact on our sales, liquidity and results of operations. Declines in Europe and North America most notably affect us given our concentration of sales in those regions, which accounted for 56% and 30%, respectively, of our 2008 sales. These sales and production declines have led to our ongoing efforts to restructure our business and take other actions in order to reduce costs. However, our high levels of fixed costs can make it difficult to adjust our cost base to the extent necessary, or to make such adjustments on a timely basis. In addition, the lower level of forecasted sales and production can result in non-cash impairment charges as the value of certain long-lived assets is reduced. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations have been and would be expected to continue to be adversely affected during periods of prolonged declining vehicle production. The negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations from sales declines could also have negative effects under our receivables facilities and our credit facilities. As a consequence of reduced sales, levels of receivables decline, which leads to a decline in funding available under the receivables facilities. A material decline in future operating results could also affect our ability to comply with the financial ratio covenants contained in our credit facility, which are calculated on a trailing four quarter basis. An inability to comply would require us to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants. There is no guarantee that such waivers or amendments would be obtained and, even if obtained, we would likely incur additional costs. Our inability to obtain any such waiver or amendment could result in a breach and a possible event of default under our credit facilities, which could allow the lenders to discontinue lending, terminate any commitments they have to provide us with additional funds and/or declare amounts outstanding to be due and payable. There is no assurance that we would have sufficient funds to repay such obligations or that we could obtain alternative funding on terms acceptable to us. Our liquidity could also be adversely impacted if our suppliers were to reduce normal trade credit terms as the result of any decline in our financial condition. Likewise, our liquidity could also be adversely impacted if our customers were to extend their normal payment terms, whether or not permitted under our contracts. If either of these situations occurred, we would need to rely on other sources of funding to bridge the additional gap between the time we pay to our suppliers and the time we receive corresponding payments from our customers. As a result of the above factors, a prolonged contraction in automotive sales and production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. In addition, our suppliers would also be subject to many of the same consequences which could pressure their results of operations and liquidity. Depending on an individual supplier’s financial condition and access to capital, its viability could be challenged which could impact its ability to perform as we expect and consequently our ability to meet our own commitments. The financial condition of OEMs, particularly the Detroit Three, may adversely affect our results and financial condition and the viability of our supply base. In addition to the impact that production cuts and permanent capacity reductions by the Detroit Three have on our business and results of operations (as described in the preceding risk factor), the financial condition of the 13 Table of Contents Detroit Three can also affect our financial condition. In order to address market share declines, reduced production levels, negative industry trends (such as the change in mix of vehicles) and other structural issues specific to their companies (such as significant overcapacity and pension and healthcare costs), the Detroit Three are undergoing or may undergo various forms of restructuring initiatives (including, in certain cases, reorganization under bankruptcy laws). Chrysler and GM have sought funding and Ford has sought a line of credit from the U.S. government due to the significant financial challenges they face. There can be no assurance that the Detroit Three will be able to meet the conditions imposed on them in connection with any such government funding or that any financial arrangements provided will enable them to remain viable. A bankruptcy filing by one or more of the Detroit Three is a possibility which would impact the collectability of receivables owed to us by such company. In addition, our United States receivables facility (the “Receivables Facility”) is subject to early termination under certain circumstances, including a default ratio of eligible receivables in excess of an established threshold, which could be triggered by the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers that are included in that facility, including the Detroit Three. Further, since many of our suppliers also supply product directly to the Detroit Three, they may face similar consequences which could increase pressure on the supplier’s own viability. As a result, the financial condition of the Detroit Three may adversely affect our financial condition and that of our suppliers. In addition, the decrease in global production levels as a result of lower vehicle demand could also adversely impact the financial condition of other OEMs and, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and that of our suppliers. Disruptions in the financial markets are adversely impacting the availability and cost of credit which could negatively affect our business. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy, insolvency or restructuring of certain financial institutions, and the lack of liquidity generally are adversely impacting the availability and cost of incremental credit for many companies and may adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged including, in our case, credit already arranged under our revolving and receivables facilities. These disruptions are also adversely affecting the U.S. and world economy, further negatively impacting consumer spending patterns in the automotive industry. In addition, as our customers and suppliers respond to rapidly changing consumer preferences, they may require access to additional capital. Several of our customers have sought, or are in various stages of discussions regarding, possible financing from their respective governments where financing is not otherwise available. If required capital is not obtained or its cost is prohibitively high, their business would be negatively impacted which could result in further restructuring or even reorganization under bankruptcy laws. Any such negative impact, in turn, could negatively affect our business either through loss of sales to any of our customers so affected or through inability to meet our commitments (or inability to meet them without excess expense) because of loss of supplies from any of our suppliers so affected. There are no assurances that government responses to these disruptions will restore consumer confidence or improve the liquidity of the financial markets. Our available cash and access to additional capital may be limited by our substantial debt. We are a non-investment grade company with a significant level of debt. This amount of debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for our business. In addition, we need to devote substantial cash to the payment of interest on our debt, which means that cash may not be used for other of our business needs. We may be more vulnerable to an economic or industry downturn and to rising interest rates than a company with less debt. Escalating pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. Pricing pressure in the automotive supply industry has been substantial and is likely to continue. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the contract. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Commodity inflationary pressures may adversely affect our profitability and the viability of our Tier 2 and Tier 3 supply base. Despite recent declines, the cost of most of the commodities we use in our business has generally increased over the past few years. Ferrous metals, base metals, resins, yarns, energy costs and other petroleum-based products have become more expensive. This has put significant operational and financial burdens on us and our suppliers. It is usually difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases and, even if passed through to some extent, the recovery is typically on a delayed basis. Furthermore, our suppliers may not be able to handle the commodity cost increases and continue to perform as we expect. The unstable condition of some of our suppliers or their failure to perform has caused us to incur additional costs which negatively impacted certain of our businesses in 2008. The continuation or worsening of these industry conditions together with the overall condition of our supply base may lead to further delivery delays, additional costs, production issues or delivery of non-conforming products by our suppliers in the future, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our business would be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales to our four largest customers on a worldwide basis were approximately 53% of our total sales. Although business with each customer is typically split among numerous contracts, if we lost a major customer or that customer significantly reduced its purchases of our products, there could be a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, which may become impaired in the future. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired, and other identifiable intangible assets, including trademarks, developed technologies, and customer relationships. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income. As the result of our annual impairment analysis, we adjusted goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets by $787 million. After such adjustment, as of December 31, 2008, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled $2,138 million or 23% of our total assets. We remain subject to future financial statement risk in the event that goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become further impaired. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. In our business, we are exposed to product liability and warranty claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall of a product. Vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product liability, warranty and recall claims and we have been subject to continuing efforts by our customers to change contract terms and conditions concerning warranty and recall participation. In addition, vehicle manufacturers have experienced increasing recall campaigns in recent years. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our results of operations. In 2008, approximately seventy-five percent of our sales originated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. This translation is based on average exchange rates during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings would be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. 15 Table of Contents Separately, while we generally produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, our sales are more concentrated in U.S. dollars and in euros than our expenses, and therefore our profit margins and earnings could be reduced due to fluctuations or adverse trends in foreign currency exchange rates. While we employ financial instruments to hedge certain of these exposures, this does not insulate us completely from currency effects. Our pension and other postretirement benefits expense and the funding requirements of our pension plans could materially increase. Most of our employees participate in defined benefit pension plans or retirement/termination indemnity plans. The rate at which we are required to fund these plans depends on certain assumptions which depend in part on market conditions. As market conditions change, these assumptions may change, which could materially increase the necessary funding status of our plans, and may require us to contribute more to these plans earlier than we anticipated. Also, this could significantly increase our pension expenses and reduce our profitability. We also sponsor other postretirement benefit (“OPEB”) plans for most of our U.S. and some of our non-U.S. employees. We fund our OPEB obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis and have no plan assets. If health care costs in the future increase more than we anticipated, our actuarially determined liability and our related OPEB expense could increase along with future cash outlays. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. We have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. Operations outside of the United States, particularly operations in emerging markets, are subject to various risks which may not be present or as significant for operations within U.S. markets. Economic uncertainty in some geographic regions in which we operate, including certain emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect cash flows from our operations in those areas. Risks inherent in our international operations include social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; the potential for changes in local economic conditions; restrictive governmental actions such as restrictions on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises; unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against United States’ or other interests. In addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, therefore, on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or the facilities of our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our operations. Due to normal and ordinary labor negotiations or as a result of a specific labor dispute, a work stoppage may occur in our facilities or those of our customers or other suppliers. The turbulence in the automotive industry and actions being taken to address negative industry trends may have the side effect of exacerbating labor relations problems which could increase the possibility of such a work stoppage. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, either directly or as a result of a work stoppage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at our facilities or one of our own suppliers could limit or stop our production of the affected products. Such interruptions in our production could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Our annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change as a result of changes in mix of earnings and other factors. The overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total earnings before tax. However, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Losses in certain jurisdictions provide no current financial statement tax benefit. As a result, changes in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate. We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company, we are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance with such laws and regulations at all times. Our costs or liabilities relating to them may be more than the amount we have reserved, of which the difference may be material. We have spent money to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and health and safety claims, including certain asbestos-related claims. While our annual costs to defend and settle these claims in the past have not been material, we cannot assure you that this will remain so in the future. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business. Because Blackstone owns a substantial percentage of our stock, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions will be limited, and conflicts of interest between Blackstone and us or our public shareholders could arise in the future. Currently an affiliate of The Blackstone Group L.P. (“Blackstone”) beneficially owns approximately 45% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Blackstone has a significant voting block with respect to all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our directors and our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction, and its vote may be difficult to overcome on any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments received from the Commission staff not less than 180 days before our 2008 fiscal year end. 