D. RISK FACTORS Risks relating to our fixed-line business Increasing competition in the Irish fixed-line telecommunications market makes our fixed-line business vulnerable to further market share loss. The Irish fixed-line telecommunications market, the main market in which we operate, is competitive, and we believe that continuing regulatory initiatives will make it increasingly so. Since 2000, we have been required to provide carrier pre-selection, (“CPS”), which allows customers to choose another authorised operator as the default carrier for some or all calls, and geographic and non-geographic number portability, which allows customers to change to another authorised operator without changing their telephone number. In the period since 2000 additional regulatory measures have been introduced, including: CPS enhancements; Single Billing through Wholesale Line Rental, (“SB-WLR”), which allows other authorised operators, (“OAOs”), to offer customers connected to our network a bundled product consisting of line rental and call services with a single bill; Local Loop Unbundling, (“LLU”), which allows other operators to co-locate equipment in our exchange buildings and connect this equipment directly to a customer access line; and partial private circuits, (“PPCs”), which allow OAOs to use our network to provide connectivity from their customers’ premises to their point of connection with our network. We were required to provide SB-WLR in June 2003, PPCs in July 2003 and CPS enhancements in September 2003. LLU was introduced in 2001. These regulatory initiatives have increased the ease with which our customers can move to OAOs. We have had significant success in winning back lost customers in the past. Since CPS was introduced in January 2000, we estimate, based on our internal traffic analysis system that we have succeeded in winning back an estimated 63% of customers who had moved to OAOs. However, restrictive guidelines introduced by ComReg in September 2003 on conducting win-back sales activities when a customer chooses an alternative operator (which, for example, prohibit us from contacting a former customer for at least a three-month period from the date of the loss of that customer) have made it harder for us to regain lost business. Since the liberalisation of the Irish fixed-line telecommunications market, our market share, based on turnover, has decreased. Prior to the liberalisation, we held a virtual monopoly in this market. In the first year following liberalisation, according to quarterly data published by ComReg, our market share, based on turnover, decreased to approximately 93% at 31 December 1999. At 31 December 2005, our market share, based on turnover, was approximately 78%. Due to the regulatory measures described above and increasing competition, we are vulnerable to further loss of market share in our fixed-line business in the future. Competition in our fixed-line business could also lead to: • loss of existing or prospective customers and greater difficulty in retaining existing customers and consequent bad debt exposure; • continued price erosion for our products and services; • increased pressure on our profit margins, preventing us from maintaining or improving our current level of operational profitability; and • obsolescence of existing technologies and the need for more rapid deployment of new technologies. Our turnover and profitability in our fixed-line business will be adversely affected as the Irish fixed-line telecommunications market is impacted as a result of increasing mobile substitution or otherwise. In its quarterly reports, ComReg publishes market revenues for the fixed-line market, and in its report covering the quarter from 1 October to 31 December 2005, ComReg states fixed-line revenues for the quarter as €481 million, implying an increase of almost 1% on the previous quarter. 13 The ComReg quarterly reports indicate that annualised total fixed-line revenues fell from approximately 55% of total electronic communications revenue in the quarter ending 31 December 2003 to approximately 47% in the quarter ending 31 December 2005. We believe that the decline in revenues in the fixed-line market has been caused by increasing competition, particularly from other mobile operators. Although the effects of fixed-to-mobile substitution are difficult to quantify, we believe it has had a negative impact on growth in the Irish fixed-line telecommunications market and will continue to do so, as a growing number of customers not only place more calls from a mobile telephone instead of a fixed-line, but choose to forego having a fixed-line installed at home in favour of using a mobile phone. We believe that the Irish fixed-line telecommunications market will continue to slow or decline, and there may continue to be periods of flat or negative growth, making it more difficult for us to increase fixed-line turnover or may even lead to a decrease in our fixed-line turnover. Re-entering the mobile market was identified as a strategic response to mitigate this risk. The acquisition of Meteor provides not only an opportunity for revenue growth, but also mitigates against fixed to mobile substitution. If ComReg changes the terms of the retail price cap it has imposed, our ability to adjust our pricing may be further restricted and, as a result, our fixed-line turnover and operating profit may decline. In February 2003, ComReg changed the cap it imposes on a specified basket of our retail products and services from a permitted annual change in average prices equal to the Irish consumer price index, (“CPI”), minus 8%, to a permitted annual change equal to CPI minus 0%. ComReg also made other changes, including eliminating the sub-caps it had previously imposed on individual services within the basket. ComReg stated in its “Response to Consultation and Consultation on Draft Decision” dated 22 March 2005, relating to the market analysis of retail fixed narrowband access markets, that eircom is now fully rebalanced and proposed to impose a sub cap on public switched telephone network, (“PSTN”), line rental of CPI minus CPI (i.e. no increase in nominal pricing) for one year effective from the date of the decision. In subsequent years, this will be at the rate of CPI minus 0%. ComReg have indicated in the market analysis of retail voice calls that the current price cap will continue until the markets are next reviewed for significant market power, (“SMP”), designation and remedies. On 24 February 2006 there was a ‘Call for Input’ from ComReg (ComReg 06/10) in relation to the ‘Retail Access and Call Market Review - further consultation in relation to markets 1-6’. The ‘Call for Input’ invited interested parties to provide any additional comment and data in relation to issues that were previously consulted upon by ComReg and any new market developments that have occurred. ComReg will use the information and comments received in the drafting of the new consultation document. If eircom is found to have SMP then the ComReg work programme indicates that they will conduct a review of the Retail Price Cap in August 2006. We are dependent on increased turnover from data services, which is an increasingly competitive market. Our fixed-line business is dependent upon increased turnover from data services to offset the impact of the declining market for fixed-line voice services on our operating results and to maintain the long-term profitability of the business. If demand for internet access and usage does not grow, if our customers do not adopt our more advanced and faster forms of internet access, such as asymmetric digital subscriber line, (“ADSL”), which is a type of broadband service, or if our competitors offer cheaper or more attractive services, we may not be able to increase our data services turnover. Our broadband services are subject to competition based on a wholesale version of our own service (bitstream), from services provided by competitors over other technologies such as cable modems, wireless or satellite, and from services built by competitors that are based on unbundled local loops and co-location. We are experiencing significant migration from dial-up internet access to ADSL services as well as some migration to flat rate tariff access services based on flat rate internet access call origination, (“FRIACO”). In addition, our fixed-line business may face increased competition in this market from other mobile companies following the implementation of 3G technology, which will allow mobile operators to offer higher rate data services to their customers through their mobile networks. Meteor’s relatively small share of this market and its current lack of 3G capability will mean that the Group will remain subject to this competitive pressure. 14 In order to maintain or improve our profitability, we need to implement a further reduction in the workforce employed in our fixed-line business, which may be difficult to implement. In order to maintain or improve our profitability, we need to continue to reduce our fixed-line workforce. Our ability to do so, however, is limited by statutory protections enjoyed by our employees and our collective agreements with trade unions. Accordingly, we are focusing on reducing our workforce through, amongst other things, voluntary severance and early retirement programmes. We have reduced the average number of employees from 8,306 for the financial year ended 31 March 2004 to 7,595 for the financial year ended 31 March 2005 and to 7,249 for the financial year ended 31 March 2006. This decline in average headcount reflects the impact of our voluntary severance, as well as the reduction of employees in connection with outsourcing certain activities through managed service contracts. Although we intend to continue to offer voluntary severance and early retirement programmes to our employees on a targeted basis, there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement further sizeable reductions. Unless we are able to achieve a sizeable reduction in the workforce employed in our fixed-line business over the next few years, our profitability is likely to decline. In addition, the measures that we implement to reduce employee numbers may entail significant costs affecting our earnings. We created a provision of €412 million in the financial year ended 31 March 2000 to finance our restructuring programme, which has been used principally to pay for staff exits. Included within this provision as at 31 March 2006 is a net deficit on an annuity plan of €65 million offered as part of the restructuring programme which is expected to be utilised over a period of seven years. The remainder of the restructuring provision was fully utilised by 30 June 2004. Further anticipated staff reductions in future years will impact our profitability. Changing technologies and markets could require us to make substantial additional investments in our fixed-line business, increase competition and have a negative impact on our turnover. Our fixed-line business operates in an industry characterised by rapid technological and market changes. We must anticipate and adapt to these changes and introduce, on a timely basis, competitively priced products and services that meet constantly changing industry standards and customer preferences. As new technologies are developed, we may have to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost to us in order to remain competitive. In addition, our competitors may implement new technologies, products or service initiatives before we do, which may allow them to provide lower priced or better quality services. In particular, any widespread adoption of Voice over Internet Protocol services, (“VoIP”), based on broadband access technologies may negatively impact our revenues from circuit switched voice services. If this occurs, it could hamper our ability to compete effectively and, as a result, decrease the turnover and operating profits of our fixed-line business. The Irish Government may use its position as a customer in the Irish fixed-line telecommunications market to promote competition in this market in a manner that is unfavourable to us. The Irish Government is a significant customer of our fixed-line business through its various agencies. We provide a range of services to the Irish Government under several contracts with differing renewal dates. Press reports have suggested that the Irish Government may seek to use its service requirements to promote competition in the Irish fixed-line telecommunications market. While we will compete for renewal of Irish Government business as those contracts come up for tender or renewal, if the Irish Government were to transfer a significant portion of its business to OAOs, our turnover may decline, which would adversely affect our profitability. 15 Risks Relating to our Mobile Business (Meteor) Meteor is dependent on its roaming agreement for the western seaboard of Ireland and its interconnection agreements. Meteor currently is dependent on a roaming agreement with O2 in order to provide service on the western seaboard of Ireland. Meteor’s ability to provide services to the western seaboard will be reduced should O2 terminate this agreement, unless Meteor chooses to build out its network to cover this territory or enters into alternative roaming arrangements. Should O2 seek to renegotiate its rates on the expiration of the contract on 28 February 2007, or before, in connection with its termination right under the change-of-control clause, Meteor’s operating costs could increase. Meteor’s ability to provide commercially viable mobile communications services depends, in part, upon its interconnection arrangements with other telecommunications operators. Interconnection with the other mobile operators is currently subject to regulatory mandate and mobile interconnection rates are currently capped by agreement with ComReg. Interconnection with eircom is also currently subject to regulatory mandate and, at present, the majority of Meteor’s fixed traffic is terminated on eircom’s network. However, interconnection with alternative fixed operators are subject to commercial agreements. Although they account currently for a small percentage of traffic, we cannot be assured that Meteor will be able to maintain these interconnection agreements, at all or on terms that are commercially acceptable, or that any material increase in the interconnection costs would not have a material adverse effect on Meteor’s financial condition and results of operations. Meteor relies on third parties to distribute its products and procure subscribers for its services. While we plan to increase the distribution of Meteor’s products and services through existing distribution channels, Meteor’s ability in the interim period to distribute products and services will depend, to a large extent, on securing and maintaining a number of key distribution partners. These third party distributors procure subscribers for Meteor’s services through selling branded handsets and services packs. In the calendar year 2005, mobile retailers Xtra Vision, 3G (retail stores), The Carphone Warehouse and Sigma accounted for approximately 60% of Meteor’s new subscribers. However, these mobile retail specialists also procure customers for Meteor’s competitors (and, in some cases, themselves), and they may have incentives to encourage potential subscribers to choose Meteor’s competitors’ services rather than Meteor’s. Meteor has also outsourced the assembly, storage and distribution of handset and subscriber identity mobile (“SIM”) packs to Sigma. Further, Meteor has outsourced the provision of customer care services for Meteor’s pre-paid subscribers. Meteor currently relies wholly on third parties to distribute pre-paid airtime vouchers and electronic top-up cards through various channels. Meteor also relies on a small number of third parties to facilitate the process (including, in the case of electronic top-ups, providing terminals to retail outlets) that enables a subscriber’s account to be credited with payments that they can use to buy Meteor’s services. Such key third parties currently include: Alphyra (which we believe has a market share of over 50% of the Irish mobile pre-paid top-up market), An Post, Phonecard Warehouse, Bank of Ireland and Allied Irish Banks. In certain circumstances, Meteor relies on these third parties to provide accurate and quality systems and equipment capable of interfacing, where necessary, with Meteor and its systems. Meteor’s failure to maintain key distribution relationships on acceptable terms, or the failure of its distribution partners to procure sufficient subscribers, could have a material adverse effect on its turnover, financial condition and results of operations. 16 The success of Meteor’s operations will depend on the Group’s ability to attract and retain subscribers. We believe that the growth in new mobile service subscribers is likely to slow down in the future as Ireland has a developed telecommunications industry and high penetration rates for mobile services. The high penetration rates combined with effective competition from Meteor’s competitors may limit its efforts to obtain new subscribers for its mobile network, services and products and may lead to a decrease or slower growth in revenues. In saturated markets, subscriber retention and conversion become more important and failure to continually improve standards in these areas and, in particular Meteor’s customer care functions, could lead to a significant decline in market share. Meteor’s goal of increasing its subscriber base may be adversely affected by its competitors’ success in retaining subscribers. If other mobile operators in the Irish telecommunications market improve their ability to retain subscribers and thereby lower their churn levels, or if Meteor is not able to maintain churn levels at a reasonable level, it will become more difficult for Meteor to grow its subscriber base, and the cost of acquiring new subscribers or retaining existing subscribers could increase. In addition, Meteor’s performance may be affected by the size and usage trends of its subscriber base. These trends may in turn be affected by dealer commissions and related costs of attracting new subscribers, the prices of handsets, the competitiveness of Meteor’s tariffs, the competitiveness of alternative services, developments in the Irish mobile market and general macroeconomic conditions, many of which are outside Meteor’s control. Meteor’s growth may result in system capacity limitations which may impact Meteor’s ability to achieve its projected growth. A number of Meteor’s systems, including the pre-paid platform (“IN”), the Mobile Switching Centre (“MSC”) and the billing system, have capacity limitations. While these systems are being expanded, upgraded or replaced according to subscriber growth forecasts, there is a risk that subscriber growth will exceed Meteor’s ability to expand certain systems on time, in a commercially viable manner, or at all. This could negatively impact subscriber acquisition and retention and growth. Meteor’s high exposure to the pre-paid market may negatively impact its revenue and profitability. As at 31 March 2006, approximately 92% of Meteor’s subscriber base consisted of pre-paid users, which is significantly higher than the Irish industry average of approximately 76% (as at 31 March 2006). Although Meteor’s post-paid subscribers predominantly sign up to an initial minimum twelve month contract which is similar to other mobile operators, given the size of Meteor pre-paid subscriber base, Meteor does not have the same level of recurring billed revenue associated with post-paid contract payments as other mobile operators. Meteor is therefore relatively more exposed to volatility in subscribers’ short-term usage replenishment patterns. A significant decline or negative fluctuation in pre-paid customers’ mobile communications usage and loyalty could impact Meteor’s cash flows and results of operations. Misuse of Meteor’s networks by subscribers through fraud or other means may damage its reputation and impact its costs or revenues. Subscribers may misuse Meteor’s networks in ways which damage Meteor’s reputation, for example using the network to make inappropriate contact with children, spamming or propagation of viruses. Subscribers may also misuse Meteor’s networks in ways that impact Meteor’s costs or revenues, including fraud. This could have a negative impact on Meteor’s business. 17 Meteor faces intense and increasing competition from existing providers of mobile services and new market entrants, which could result in decreases in subscribers, revenues and profitability. Meteor is competing increasingly with the two established mobile operators, Vodafone and O2. These competitors have substantially greater resources and a larger market share than Meteor, which may affect Meteor’s ability to compete successfully. Competition is likely to intensify in Ireland, with the entry of 3 Ireland to the pre-paid market sector. 3 Ireland operates a 3G network and offers GSM services through a roaming agreement with Vodafone. Also, following a public tender, ComReg announced its intention to offer a fourth 3G licence to Smart Telecom which would have resulted in an additional entrant into the Irish mobile communications market. While ComReg subsequently withdrew this offer and the matter is now before the Courts, we cannot guarantee that Smart Telecom will not be successful in obtaining the licence and subsequently entering the market. While a recent decision by ComReg that Vodafone and O2 must, if requested, host mobile virtual network operators, (“MVNO”), on their networks was withdrawn following appeal to the Electronic Communications Appeals Panel, we cannot guarantee that Vodafone and/or O2 will not provide MVNO access on commercial terms, or that ComReg will not reintroduce an MVNO access mandate at some stage in the future following further market analysis. Also as a condition to its 3G licence, 3 Ireland must, if requested, host MVNOs on its network at a discount of at least 35% to its retail prices. At some point in the future, Meteor may also be required to give MVNO access, further increasing the risk of competition. Increased competition may lead to: • price erosion on Meteor’s products and services; • increased subscriber acquisition and retention costs; • inability of Meteor to increase its market share or a reduction in its market share; • more rapid deployment of new technologies; • scarcity of premium content and new added value technology; and • scarcity of qualified staff. Meteor’s competitive position will also depend on the efficiency and success of its marketing and branding initiatives and its ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, the behaviour of its competitors and the evolution of the mobile sector in Ireland. Such competitive factors include, among other things, new services and products, network coverage, network quality, pricing of mobile services and handsets, the quality of customer service and changes in consumer preferences. Meteor’s results of operations may be adversely affected if it is unable to respond to competitive initiatives of competitors that may be less capital constrained. General Risks relating to Our Business We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which may impair our operating and financial flexibility and could adversely affect the business and financial position of the Group and our ability to pay dividends. We have a substantial amount of debt and significant debt service obligations. As at 31 March 2006, we had gross outstanding indebtedness of €2.503 billion. Through Valentia Telecommunications, we have unused commitments of €150 million under our Senior Credit Facility. We anticipate that our substantial leverage will continue for the foreseeable future. 18 Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences for stakeholders. For example, it: • requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for working capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limits our ability to pay dividends; • limits our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in technology, customer demand, competitive pressures and the industries in which we operate; • could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged than we are; and • could increase our vulnerability to both general and industry specific adverse economic conditions. The Senior Credit Facility, the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes contain a number of financial, operating and other obligations that limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our ability to comply with these obligations depends on the future performance of our business. In addition, interest on debt under our Senior Credit Facility is calculated on a floating rate basis. We have €680 million of unhedged floating rate debt under our Senior Credit Facility, with an interest rate at 1.25% over EURIBOR as at 31 March 2006. The interest rate swaps on the remaining Senior Credit Facility expire on 1 April 2004. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest expense under the Senior Credit Facility which would, in turn, reduce the funds available to make payments on our Senior Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes and any other debt we have. It would also reduce the funds available to finance our operations and future business opportunities and to pay dividends, and have potentially further adverse effects as described above. Our pension deficit may (if it continues) reduce our cash flows, profitability, financial condition, net assets, distributable reserves and our ability to pay dividends. As at 31 March 2006, we had a net pension deficit (net of deferred tax) of €139 million, but a pension asset (net of deferred tax) of €117 million is recognised in the financial statements, therefore €256 million (net of deferred tax) was not recognised in our financial statements as a reduction in distributable reserves as permitted by IAS19, “Employee Benefits”. There may be continuing development in IAS 19 and, consequently, there is uncertainty about exactly what IAS 19 will require in future years. If we have a significant pension deficit in future years (which is dependent, amongst other things, on changes in the valuation of publicly traded equities and interest rates), depending on the accounting treatment adopted at that time, we may (unless we are able to take steps to increase distributable reserves within the Group) be unable to pay any dividends. Our profitability may suffer if we are unable successfully to enter new markets. As part of our strategy, we look to identify and exploit opportunities for future growth. One market that we believe may offer significant opportunities is the market for mobile telecommunications services and that belief underpinned the strategy to re-enter mobile and to acquire Meteor. We may also, if we determine it to be in our interests, enter into other non-fixed line telecommunications businesses such as wireless telecommunications. In each case, we may need to invest substantial funds and other resources or enter into strategic alliances in order to enter and compete in these markets. We may not have the resources necessary for such investment or find suitable partners nor can we assure you that any businesses we enter into in the future will perform as well as we might expect. 19 We are dependent on Ireland for substantially all of our turnover and, if growth in the Irish economy slows, it could have a negative effect on our turnover and profitability. Substantially all of our turnover is generated in Ireland. Demand for our products and services in Ireland is influenced by a number of factors, including the strength of the Irish economy. If economic growth in Ireland slows, it could have a material negative effect on our turnover and profitability. A change in our tax residence could have a negative effect on our profitability. Although we are incorporated in England and Wales, our Directors seek, and intend to continue to seek, to ensure that our affairs are conducted in such a manner that we are resident in Ireland for Irish and UK tax purposes and for the purposes of the United Kingdom-Ireland double tax treaty. As a result of a technical requirement in the UK tax legislation, we fall within the ambit of the UK “controlled foreign companies” regime. However, the UK tax authorities have previously confirmed that, based on the rationale for the formation of the existing group structure, we will not be liable to UK tax under that regime in respect of the Company’s current subsidiaries. It is possible that in the future, whether as a result of a change in law or the practice of any relevant tax authority or the renegotiation of the United Kingdom-Ireland double tax treaty, or as a result of any change in the conduct of our affairs, following a review by our Directors, or a change in the activities or circumstances of our subsidiaries, we could become, or be regarded as having become, resident in the UK or elsewhere or become liable to UK tax under the UK “controlled foreign companies” tax regime. Should we cease to be resident in Ireland for tax purposes, we may be subject to a charge to Irish capital gains tax on our assets, and our change of residence might cause some or all of our subsidiaries to cease to be Irish tax resident which could make them also subject to a charge to Irish capital gains tax on their assets, other than Irish trading assets. This could also interfere with the manner in which interest costs of Valentia Telecommunications and eircom Funding are utilised for Irish tax purposes. This could also mean that dividends paid between companies in the Group could give rise to taxation as opposed to the current position whereby dividends paid by one Irish resident company to another Irish resident company do not give rise to a liability to Irish taxation. It may not be possible to effect service of process upon us or enforce court judgements against us or our Directors. We are incorporated under the laws of England and Wales and resident in Ireland and the majority of our Directors are citizens or residents of Ireland. Additionally, a substantial portion of the assets of such persons and many of the assets of the Company are located in Ireland. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process outside England, Wales or Ireland against us or our Directors or enforce the judgement of a court outside England, Wales or Ireland against us or our Directors. There is doubt as to the enforceability in England, Wales and Ireland, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgements of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated upon US federal securities laws. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by applicable company law, our status as a holding company, certain agreements to which Group companies are party and the requirement to pay dividend entitlements on our Preference Shares. Under UK company law, we can only pay cash dividends to the extent that we have distributable reserves and cash available for this purpose. In addition, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends, first, to the holders of Preference Shares and, thereafter, to the holders of Ordinary Shares is affected by a number of factors, principally our ability to receive sufficient dividends from our subsidiaries. The payment of dividends to us by our subsidiaries is, in turn, subject to certain restrictions, including similar Irish company laws requiring the existence of sufficient distributable reserves and cash in our subsidiaries and restrictions contained in the Senior Credit Facility and the Amended Indentures. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends (for example, as a result of profitability or distributable reserves in these 20 subsidiaries being adversely affected) may reduce our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In particular, Meteor has substantial accumulated realised losses which are partially offset by capital contributions received in the form of non-refundable gifts from its parent company. Meteor will be unable to consider paying a dividend until, amongst other things, it has accumulated realised reserves, which would include realised profits and capital contributions, in excess of accumulated losses. The Company has three classes of issued Preference Shares carrying cumulative dividend entitlements ranking in priority to the holders of Ordinary Shares. Under the Articles, accrued dividends on these Preference Shares must be paid in full prior to payment of dividends to the holders of Ordinary Shares. The total dividend paid on the Preference Shares for the financial year to 31 March 2006 was €19 million. It is expected that the aggregate cash amount required each year to fund payments of dividends on the Preference Shares will fall over time if the ESOT converts Convertible Preference Shares into Ordinary Shares in accordance with its stated intentions. However, if Convertible Preference Shares are not converted by the ESOT then this amount will not reduce significantly over time. The ESOT will continue to hold a significant shareholding and its interests may conflict with the interests of investors. The ESOT currently holds 21.4% of our Ordinary Shares. On 23 May 2006, the Independent Directors of eircom and the board of directors of BCM Ireland Holdings, (“BCMIH”), announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended Cash Offer under which BCMIH will acquire the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of eircom not already owned by BCMIH. The Offer is to be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under Section 425 of the UK Companies Act. BCMIH is a company that has been formed for the purposes of BCM and the ESOT jointly making the Offer. BCMIH is a newly-incorporated company specifically formed for the purpose of implementing the Offer and is funded by Babcock & Brown Capital Limited (“BCM”) and certain of its affiliates (together the “BCM Group”) and the eircom Employee Share Ownership Trust (“ESOT”). BCM and the ESOT have come together with a proposal to make a joint offer. Upon the Offer completing, the BCM Group and the ESOT will indirectly hold 65 per cent. and 35 per cent. of the issued ordinary share capital of BCMIH, respectively. Further details are included in Item 4A “History and Development of the Company - Cash offer by BCM Ireland Holdings”. In addition, the ESOT holds interests in our Preference Shares. The terms of the Convertible Preference Shares held by the ESOT will enable the ESOT, subject to certain limitations, to convert such shares, over time, into Ordinary Shares (on the basis of the volume weighted average price of an Ordinary Share on the relevant conversion date) provided that following conversion, the ESOT’s holding, taken together with those acting in concert with the ESOT (as determined in accordance with the provisions described below), does not exceed 29.9% of the issued Ordinary Shares. The ESOT has the right pursuant to the Articles to appoint three directors to the Board for so long as it (or its nominee(s)) continues to hold at least 18% of our issued Ordinary Shares (which number will decrease to two directors when it (or its nominee(s)) holds at least 10% but less than 18% of our issued Ordinary Shares and to one director where such holding is at least 1% but less than 10% of our issued Ordinary Shares). The ESOT will also have the right to nominate one of its nominee directors to be the Vice-Chairman for a period of three years from the 2004 Admission and thereafter will have this right for so long as the ESOT is entitled to appoint not less than two directors. The current ESOT nominee directors are Mr Scanlon, Mr Conroy and Mr Magee. As a result, the ESOT will have the ability to exert influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the declaration of dividends, and accordingly will have the ability to influence our operations. Decisions made by the ESOT therefore may influence our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Risks Relating to Regulatory and Licensing Matters - Fixed-line telecommunications services The provision of fixed-line telecommunications services in Ireland is subject to extensive regulation. The interpretation of existing regulations in a manner unfavourable to us, or the adoption of new policies or regulations that are unfavourable to us, could disrupt our fixed-line business operations and could cause our operating profit to decline. The fixed-line telecommunications services that we provide are subject to extensive regulation. ComReg regulates the manner in which we provide many of our retail and wholesale services and regulates the prices at which they are provided. In addition, the Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources (the “Minister”) may, in the interests of proper and effective regulation of the Irish telecommunications market, give policy directions to ComReg to be followed in the exercise of its regulatory functions. ComReg is mandated to pursue a policy of fostering increased competition in the Irish telecommunications market, and requires us to provide specified wholesale services and unbundled network services to OAOs in order to allow these operators to compete in the retail market. Providing these services has resulted in a loss of our market share in the retail fixed-line market, which we believe is likely to continue to decline. ComReg is also in the process of introducing new requirements to foster further competition, which could lead to further market share loss. We expect that OAOs will seek to exploit these new requirements to increase their market share, but we do not know to what extent these actions will impact us. ComReg issues pricing directions periodically over our wholesale services, which may negatively impact our fixed-line turnover and operating profit. ComReg requires us to provide wholesale services to OAOs and regulates the prices at which we offer these services. For example, the pricing of unbundled local loop access services, as well as the pricing of interconnection services which generate most of our wholesale revenues, generally must be based on the long run incremental costs of providing them, together with a permissible rate of return on our capital. In November 2004, ComReg directed that the monthly rental for our unbundled local loop would be set at €14.65 per month from December 2004 for a period of twelve months with increases in subsequent years limited to no more than the level of CPI. See Item 4B “Information on the Company - Business Overview, Tariffs”. On 10 December 2005, we increased the price to €15.09. The pricing for shared access to eircom’s unbundled loops was not addressed in the ComReg decision on fully unbundled loops in November 2004. ComReg has consulted on this pricing and published a draft direction in March 2005, proposing a monthly rental price of €0.39. We have responded to these proposals rejecting them and are awaiting a response from ComReg. Consistent with the Minister’s 26 March 2004 policy direction to ComReg, on 31 March 2004, we launched our enhanced CPS single billing through WLR product. Since 1 April 2004, prices for the WLR product have been set based on ComReg’s direction at the retail price less 10%. In March 2005, ComReg published a draft direction on the market analysis for the retail fixed narrowband access markets. ComReg stated that it intends to continue with the application of the retail minus price control for WLR for the period of the market review. Proposed or directed changes to the prices of our wholesale fixed-line products and services may negatively impact our revenue, profit and retail market share. ComReg is considering whether to introduce a price cap on our fixed-line wholesale services, including interconnection services. Although we cannot predict the terms of any wholesale price cap ComReg may adopt, a wholesale price cap may restrict our ability to make changes to our wholesale prices and consequently may negatively impact our turnover and operating profit. 22 Currently, our wholesale interconnection tariffs are determined by us and submitted to ComReg for review and approval. Typically, the initial rates we set are subject to change as they are reviewed by ComReg, with a final rate set with retrospective effect. In May 2003, ComReg stated that it believed in principle that a wholesale price cap should be introduced and that it would consult further in a separate paper on this matter shortly. In August 2003, ComReg further noted that it found the responses received in regards to the consultation helpful and, where appropriate, would factor the responses into its analysis. ComReg has also commenced a bottom-up review of the costings of our core network. The outcome of this review may serve as an input to the setting of a wholesale price cap by ComReg. We believe that a price cap approach to wholesale prices is in principle a more favourable approach than the current approach that combines setting interim rates, finalising rates after year end and making retrospective payments, if required, based on final rates. However, ComReg could establish price caps on these wholesale services in a manner that could restrict our ability to make a profit on the provision of these services which would adversely affect our turnover and operating profit. ComReg has proposed moving to a price cap for interconnection services in the consultation on market analysis for interconnection markets but acknowledges that the annual review regime may have to continue in the short term. On 9 June 2006, ComReg published an Information Notice (ComReg 06/23) agreeing final interconnection rates for the financial years ending March 2005, 2006 and 2007. In the same Information Notice ComReg states that it may be in a position to consult on the use if a wholesale price cap to set rates beyond March 2007. If ComReg reduces our leased line prices or adopts new regulation of leased lines that is unfavourable to us, our turnover and operating profit may decline. In March 2005, under the new EU regulatory framework for the electronic communications, networks and services sector, (“NRF”), ComReg issued a decision re-confirming regulatory obligations related to eircom’s supply of wholesale leased lines and PPCs. We appealed the ComReg decision to the Appeals Panel. On 21 February 2006 eircom and ComReg advised the Appeals Panel that the appeal had been settled. ComReg clarified its decision to our satisfaction and agreed to conduct a new market review process as soon as possible. Carrier pre-selection obligations require us to provide single billing facilities and restrictions on our customer win-back activities could result in a loss of fixed-line market share and a decline in our turnover and operating profit. We have been required to provide CPS for voice services to OAOs, which allows customers to more easily select the services of our competitors. In its role of protecting consumers, ComReg established a CPS Code of Practice in 2003. Among other things, this code places restrictions on the win-back activity of eircom and other operators. It also aims to prevent misleading advertising and sales and marketing materials. In 2005, on foot of numerous breaches on the part of industry players, ComReg proposed that financial penalties be established for breaches of the CPS Code of Practice. eircom sought clarification in an exchange of letters with ComReg in early 2006. ComReg stated that it was minded to continue with the present regime. If we are found to be in violation of applicable regulations in relation to our win-back activity, ComReg could further restrict our activities or initiate enforcement proceedings. Any or all of these recent developments could result in further loss of existing market share and a decline in our turnover and operating profit. Our universal service obligations could have a negative impact on our profitability. Under EU directives that have been implemented into Irish law, ComReg is required to promote the availability of specified fixed-line telephony services to all users in Ireland, regardless of their geographical position, at an affordable price. We are the only telecommunications provider in Ireland obligated to provide these services, known as universal service obligations, (“USO”), and we are required to do so even if the 23 service is uneconomic from our perspective. Our USO requires us to provide basic voice services, standard fax and low-speed data services and reasonable access to public pay phones and directory enquiry services as well as services adapted for disabled users. In addition, USO services are required to be provided at geographically averaged prices throughout Ireland. On 30 March 2006, ComReg launched a consultation on “The Future Provision of Telephony Services Under Universal Service Obligations,” proposing to continue with the current arrangements whereby eircom would remain as the sole designated universal service provider, (“USP”), for a further period of four years. The consultation closed on 11 May 2006. To date eircom has not received compensation for serving as USP. As required under EU law, there is a statutory provision that permits ComReg to establish a fund that would allow us to recover the net costs of meeting our USO if ComReg determines that that net cost is an unfair burden on us. We commissioned an independent study of the net cost of USO, which was delivered to us in February 2005. In our submission in respect of the March 2006 consultation, we have sought the establishment of such a fund. If such a fund is not established, it will have neutral impact on the current operating profit. However if the losses we incur from satisfying our USO increase and a USO fund is not established, our operating profit may be negatively impacted. As a result of government and regulatory initiatives, we may be subject to increased competition in broadband, which may negatively impact our turnover and profitability. The Irish Government has taken a number of initiatives in the context of the national development plan to promote investment in broadband infrastructure in Ireland. This includes the development of metropolitan area fibre networks, (“MANs”), which can provide wholesale broadband capacity in certain cities and towns around Ireland. In June 2004, the Government awarded a 15 year contract to e-net (an authorised operator in the electronic communications industry) to operate a wholesale, operator neutral service through the MANs. In addition, national connectivity is now also available through the backbone network developed by the state funded Electricity Supply Board and Bord Gáis. As the effect of government investment is to assist other competitors in building their own networks, this presents a competitive disadvantage to us. In March 2006 the EU Commission announced that it had approved, under State Aid rules, the Irish Government plans to extend the MANs fibre-rings to up to 120 towns in Ireland. The approval is subject to certain undertakings given by the Irish Government to minimise the effect of State Aid and to reduce any potential market distortions. It is not known if e-net will manage the MANs in the additional towns as the contract for the management of the networks will be put to public tender. In January 2006 the Government published details of a draft Electronic Communications Miscellaneous Provisions Bill which aims to strengthen the enforcement powers of ComReg. If passed into legislation, this will establish the investigation and enforcement powers of ComReg on a level equal to those of the Competition Authority. The draft Bill also proposes the establishment of an entity independent of eircom to provide call handling services for all calls to the Emergency Services. Currently this service is provided by eircom and other operators do not reimburse the Company for doing so. Regulatory investigations and litigation may lead to fines or other penalties. We are involved on occasion in litigation and regulatory enquiries and investigations involving our operations. ComReg and other regulatory bodies occasionally make enquiries and conduct investigations concerning our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. On 17 October 2002, ComReg determined that we were not in compliance with our obligations under the voice telephony regulations by providing telephone services to specific customers at prices which were not in accordance with the specific terms and conditions of our discount schemes and published prices. No penalties were levied on us as a result of this determination. By agreement with ComReg and at its direction, we have put internal controls in place that we believe will prevent this from re-occurring and an independent audit of the related internal controls has been conducted. The final audit findings report, including management comments, and our statement of 24 compliance were submitted to ComReg on 9 March 2005. If ComReg concludes that we were not complying with our obligations, it could begin an enforcement action. If we are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, we may become subject to substantial criminal and civil penalties and fines. Three appeals were resolved to the satisfaction of the Company during the year. Planning licence fees, if applicable to us, may adversely affect our profitability. Under Irish planning legislation introduced in 2003, where a licence is granted by a planning authority to a person to erect, construct, place and maintain overhead cables or wires on, over or along a public road, a fee is payable to the planning authority for every year or part of a year for which the licence is granted. This fee could be determined to apply to our networks, which encompass overhead wires and poles. If it is determined that the licence fee is applicable to our networks and is enforced on an annual basis, it may adversely affect our profitability. Risks Relating to Regulatory and Licensing Matters - Mobile telecommunications services Meteor’s mobile voice call termination, (“MVCT”), rates may be subject to regulatory intervention in the future. In a decision published on 8 June 2004, ComReg found that the market for voice call termination services on mobile phone networks in Ireland was not competitive and deemed Vodafone, O2, Meteor and 3 Ireland to have significant market power for MVCT on their own networks. On 6 July 2005, prior to adopting its final decision, ComReg issued a draft decision on the proposed obligations for these SMP operators. ComReg concluded that MVCT rates in Ireland need to be cost-oriented and, over time, must be reduced to efficient operator levels. The draft decision provides that as at 1 September 2005, MVCT rates must be capped at current levels. From 1 September 2005, and prior to the establishment of a definitive level of cost-orientated charges for each of the SMP operators, ComReg may issue directions for the purpose of establishing a graduated step approach towards cost orientation of a price cap for MVCT rates. In doing so, ComReg may employ international benchmarking. As a result of these regulatory obligations, we believe that there will be a gradual decline in MVCT rates over the next four years. Meteor, in common with the other mobile operators, has entered into a voluntary agreement with ComReg capping the decreases in Meteor’s MVCT rates to CPI minus 7.5%, where CPI is 3%, annually for 2006 and 2007. Reductions agreed by Vodafone and O2 are greater, and Meteor will therefore maintain MVCT rates that are higher than Vodafone and O2’s until 31 December 2007. While another voluntary agreement is a possibility for the 2008 and 2009 period, we cannot assume that this will occur and that ComReg will not exercise their right to introduce a cost orientated efficient operator rate. Given that revenues from MVCT currently constitute a large proportion of Meteor’s revenues and that Meteor’s current MVCT rates are higher than those charged by Vodafone and O2, this could materially affect Meteor’s revenues and business. Meteor’s international roaming retail tariffs and/or its wholesale international roaming charges may be subject to regulatory intervention in the future. Meteor faces potential regulatory-mandated reductions in its wholesale international roaming charges and/or its retail international roaming tariffs because of possible regulatory intervention at national and European levels. As outlined below, Meteor believes that regulatory intervention at the EU or national level will result in a step change reduction in the retail tariffs that it charges its customers who roam abroad and in the wholesale international roaming rates that it charges to other Mobile Network Operators (“MNOs”) whose customers roam on Meteor’s network in Ireland. As Meteor’s international roaming revenues currently comprises 5% of its revenues, the material affect on Meteor’s revenues and business is likely to be modest. 25 • Possible ComReg regulatory intervention - Under the new European regulatory framework, ComReg is obliged to define and assess the conditions of competition in the “national wholesale market for international roaming services on public networks”. ComReg commenced this market review on 13 April 2006. In its initial assessment of the market, ComReg is satisfied that the national wholesale market for international roaming services in Ireland is not characterised by single or joint dominance and consequently does not propose the imposition of any regulatory obligations on Meteor or other MNOs in the market. ComReg intends, though, to continue to monitor developments at both the retail and wholesale level to ensure that market power could not be exercised to the detriment of the internal market. • Possible European Commission regulatory intervention - On 8 February 2006, Viviane Reding, The European Commissioner for Information Society and Media, announced a plan to propose a EU regulation on international roaming charges, which would have direct effect in all EU member states. This announcement was followed by a first consultation from 20 February to 22 March 2006 on the form the future regulation could take. On 3 April 2006, the European Commission opened the second phase of consultation on a “Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on mobile roaming services in the Single Market”. Comments were invited by 12 May 2006. The Commission proposed regulatory intervention both at the wholesale and retail level, however the first objective is to regulate retail prices in order to reduce them substantially. The Commission proposes a ‘home pricing rule’ that would link retail prices for international roaming calls to the customer’s home prices for comparable domestic mobile services and would abolish charges for receiving calls when roaming abroad. National regulators, however, favour an approach based on wholesale regulation with retail regulation used only as a ‘back-stop’. It is not yet clear which of these two approaches will prevail. The Commission is expected to adopt its proposal for a regulation in July 2006 and to forward this to the European Parliament and the Council for final adoption. The regulation is expected to enter into force by summer 2007. The mobile communications industry is highly regulated. Regulation may limit Meteor’s flexibility to manage its business and subject it to regulatory risks. ComReg regulates the licensing, construction, operation and ownership of communications systems, and the granting and renewal of applicable licences and radio frequency allocations. Decisions by ComReg regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licences to Meteor or to third parties could adversely affect Meteor’s future operations in Ireland. Meteor’s GSM licence was initially granted on 19 June 2000. The licence has a duration of one year and was last renewed on 22 July 2005. The licencee may apply to ComReg annually for renewal of the licence and ComReg has a discretion to renew the licence. According to the Wireless Telegraphy GSM Regulations 2003, such a licence may be renewed annually up to a maximum of 15 years from the initial grant of the licence (after which the licence expires). While there is a fixed duration on the GSM licences as set out in Regulation 4(2) and 4(5) of the GSM Mobile Telephony Licence (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, to the best of our knowledge and to the best of ComReg’s knowledge there is no history of ComReg not renewing the GSM Licence of a Licencee under the GSM Licence Renewal process, when the Licencee is in compliance with its licence conditions. If ComReg chooses not to renew Meteor’s licence, or decides not to issue a new licence after Meteor’s existing licence expires, this would adversely affect Meteor’s future operations in Ireland. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that ComReg will not issue telecommunications licences to new operators whose services will compete with Meteor. 26 Irish and other European competition authorities and regulators also have the authority to intervene to prevent anti-competitive pricing behaviour, such as excessive pricing. For example, in 2000, the European Commission Competition Directorate-General began the second phase of an enquiry into roaming charges for mobile calls made abroad for selected European mobile network operators. The Commission has not made any public statement on this enquiry since 2001, but it has also not concluded the enquiry. It is possible that the Commission will find that the level of international roaming charges is uncompetitively high and then require a reduction in these charges. If Irish or European competition authorities or regulators were to conduct similar investigations with Irish mobile network operators and impose reductions, this would decrease the turnover we will be able to generate from our customers using their phones outside Ireland and decrease our profitability. Further, because a high percentage of our customer base subscribes on a pre-paid basis (unlike our competitors, who have a higher percentage of post-paid customers), inbound revenue constitutes a disproportionately high percentage of our turnover as our pre-paid customers generally receive more calls than they make, while our post-pay customers generally make more calls than they receive. Therefore, changes in inbound call termination charges may have a greater impact on us than on our competitors. Meteor is required to retain data for security purposes and to assist government departments in jamming signals. Data protection implications may arise from such data retention obligations. Further details on the regulatory framework in Ireland can be found in Item 4E “Information on the Company - Regulation” of this document. Meteor may also be required to assist Government departments in certain circumstances including, for example, national emergencies. This may result in business interruption. Meteor, in common with other mobile operators, has agreed with the Department of Communications, Marine and Natural Resources to a self regulation package of measures, including a Code of Practice, in relation to access to adult content and age verification. Meteor and the other operators are undertaking technical projects to comply with the Code. A failure to comply by Meteor, or by any one of the other mobile operators, or a failure of the Code to deal with this issue to the Government’s satisfaction, may lead to legislative or regulatory intervention, including mandatory registration of all pre-pay handsets, which may have an adverse effect on Meteor’s business. Alleged health risks associated with mobile communications could lead to decreased usage of Meteor’s services and products, increased difficulty in obtaining transmitter sites or potential liability. Public concern about the perceived health risks of mobile communications could have a detrimental impact on Meteor’s business by casting its services or products in a negative light, making it difficult to retain or attract subscribers or to obtain transmitter sites, or reducing usage per subscriber of all or certain of its services. Although a UK Government commissioned report, published in January 2004 by the Advisory Group of Non Ionising Radiation of the National Radiological Protection Board, concluded that the current evidence does not establish adverse health effects from mobile phone emissions that are below guideline levels, it did state that the published research to date has limitations and particularly that there has been little research into exposure during childhood. It also noted that since mobile phones have only been in widespread use for a relatively short time, continued research is needed. We cannot provide assurances that further medical research and studies will not establish a link between the radio frequency emissions of mobile handsets and/or base stations and these health concerns. As a result of these health concerns, government authorities could increase regulation of mobile handsets and base stations and neighbourhood action groups may limit or delay Meteor’s ability to install mobile phone masts at key sites. If these health risks were to materialise, actual costs or damages could be significantly in excess of any limited insurance protection that Meteor may have and Meteor may have difficulty obtaining appropriate insurance protection for such risks. Mobile network operators could be held liable for the costs or damages associated with these concerns. This could have a material adverse effect on Meteor’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Meteor may become regulated as a provider of e-money. If services provided by Meteor in the future are classified as “e-money” under the European Community (Electronic Money) Regulations 2002, which gives effect to the e-money Directive 2000/46/EC (the E-Money Directive), Meteor will be required to become regulated as an “electronic money institution” in order to issue e-money. This would impose specific regulations on Meteor’s management and capital requirements, including restrictions on the allowable uses of pre-payments. While there is uncertainty as to the application of this regulation, should it apply to Meteor, Meteor’s financial performance could be adversely affected. If Meteor is unable to comply with these requirements, it could be subject to criminal sanctions and monetary penalties under this regulation, including for any non-compliant historic activities. Competition Authority approval of eircom’s acquisition of Meteor was conditional on preparing separated accounts for the mobile business of the group. In its November 2005 approval of eircom’s acquisition of Meteor, the Competition Authority imposed no conditions except for the undertaking offered by eircom to reflect the new mobile business in the preparation of separated regulatory accounts as required on an ongoing basis by ComReg. 28 