ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when considering an investment decision with respect to our securities. All material risks currently known to management are described below. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flow, and the impact could be compounded if multiple risks were to occur. Developments related to antitrust investigations by government regulators could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern our business both in the United States and internationally, including those relating to competition (antitrust). Antitrust authorities, including those in the United States and Europe, are investigating possible violations of competition (antitrust) laws by automotive parts suppliers (referred to herein as the "Antitrust Investigations"). In connection with those investigations, in June 2011, European antitrust authorities visited certain of our Occupant Safety Systems business unit locations in Germany to gather information. We also received a subpoena related to the Antitrust Investigations in the United States from the U.S. Department of Justice (the "DOJ"). In connection with the Antitrust Investigation in the United States, in 2012 one of the Company's German subsidiaries entered into a plea agreement with the DOJ involving sales of Occupant Safety Systems products. The agreement was approved by the court, thereby concluding the DOJ's current investigation of the Company. However, the Antitrust Investigation by the European Commission is ongoing. While the duration and outcome of the European Commission's investigation is uncertain, a determination that the Company has violated European competition (antitrust) laws could result in significant penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. European competition law investigations often continue for several years and have resulted in the imposition of significant fines by the European Commission, in some cases, for violations at companies in other sectors. We continue to cooperate fully with the relevant authorities in their ongoing investigations. At this point, we cannot estimate the ultimate financial impact resulting from the European investigation. However, developments related to such investigations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. Economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the viability of our supply base. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend, among other things, on general economic conditions and consumer spending and preferences. Although the global economy has shown signs of improvement within particular regions such as North America, it remains fragile. With the increase in connectivity between global economies, a financial crisis, geopolitical turmoil or other significant event in one region can have an immediate and significant impact on markets around the world. Further, consumer spending and preferences can be affected by a number of issues, including employment levels, changes in expendable income due to the pace of wage growth and changes in personal tax rates, fuel costs, real estate values, the availability of consumer financing and concerns about the economy. As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. Production levels in Europe and North America most notably affect us given our concentration of sales in those regions, which accounted for 43% and 36%, respectively, of our 2012 sales. Throughout Europe the economy continues to experience overall weakness and negative pressure. Concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain of the countries that have adopted the euro 14 Table of Contents currency (the "euro zone") and their ability to meet future financial obligations, as well as concerns regarding the overall stability of the euro to function as a single currency among the diverse economic, social and political circumstances within the euro zone. If one of the euro zone countries were to default on its debt or withdraw from the euro currency, the impact on global markets, and on our business, could be significant, and that impact would intensify substantially if the euro currency was dissolved entirely. Such a development could also cause financial and capital markets across the globe to constrict, reducing liquidity and increasing borrowing costs, and could have a significant negative impact on consumer confidence and spending. Immediate concerns also exist in our industry regarding vehicle sales and production levels in Europe, which declined in 2012 and which continue to experience significant downward pressure due largely to economic conditions which have caused consumer demand to deteriorate throughout the euro zone. This has led to efforts by us and others within the industry to restructure our business in the region. However, high levels of fixed costs and long lead times in Europe can make it difficult to adjust our cost base to the extent necessary, or to make such adjustments on a timely basis, impacting our profitability. Likewise, reduced European sales and production levels may prompt our customers to implement cost-cutting and downsizing actions further to those taken in response to the 2008-2009 downturn, which could require us to implement restructuring actions beyond those currently anticipated. In addition, if capital required by our customers and suppliers for responsive actions is not obtained or its cost is prohibitively high, their business could be negatively impacted. Such an impact on them could negatively affect our business, either through lower sales to affected customers or through inability to meet our commitments (or inability to meet them without excess expense) because of our suppliers' inability to perform. As described above, general economic conditions, particularly in Europe, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and the viability of our supply base. If our current expansion efforts are not successfully implemented, they may adversely impact our business and results of operations. We are currently in an expansion phase, in order to support our future business based upon new business awards. This expansion, which is our most significant since we became a public company, involves increased capital expenditures and includes the building or expansion of eleven plants. Achievement of the benefits of the expansion is dependant in part on our ability to successfully manage the demands such expansion places on our management resources and engineering and quality teams with respect to not only the building or modification of the physical plants, but also the simultaneous launch of a sizable number of new programs. Our ability to manage the various expansion projects simultaneously may be challenged by factors beyond our control, such as the ability to hire a sufficient number of qualified personnel in the locations required at a cost that does not significantly exceed the cost anticipated when we quoted the business. Further, due to the long lead time required to support production under awarded future business from automobile manufacturers, we must commit substantial resources and incur significant costs before we receive the benefit of the revenue from that business, which will impact our profitability. If the production levels for the new business fall short of the levels anticipated or the timing of that production changes, due to lack of commercial success of one or more particular vehicle models or otherwise, we may not realize all of the future sales expected for the awarded business, and we may have difficulty recouping the costs expended in the expansion. We could be adversely affected by any shortage of supplies causing a production disruption. Either we, our customers, or other suppliers may experience supply shortages of, or delays in the supply of, components or raw materials. This could be caused by a number of factors, including insufficient production line capacity or manpower or working capital constraints or other factors, including weather emergencies and natural or man-made disasters impacting the accessibility of raw 15 Table of Contents materials or components, labor or social/political unrest, commercial disputes, public health concerns or acts of terrorism or other hostilities. Due to the industry's reliance on "just-in-time" delivery of components during the assembly and manufacture of vehicles, oftentimes only minimal inventories of supplies are readily available. Further, if an issue arises, many components cannot be re-sourced quickly or inexpensively to another supplier due to, among other things, long lead times to full production, the unavailability of other suppliers or demands imposed by alternative suppliers. Although we consider the production capacities, financial condition and physical locations of suppliers in our selection process, there is no assurance that the foregoing factors will not result in any shortages or delays. Further, we and others in our industry have been rationalizing and consolidating our supply base in order to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods and services and, in addition, due to the turbulence in the automotive industry, several suppliers have ceased operations. As a result, there is greater dependence on fewer sources of supply for certain components and materials. Further, many suppliers downsized significantly during the economic downturn and may face capacity constraints as the industry recovery progresses or liquidity issues in light of economic pressures. These factors could increase the possibility of a supply shortage of any particular component or material. If any of our customers experience a material supply shortage, either directly or as a result of a supply shortage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, if we or one of our own suppliers experience a supply shortage, we may become unable to produce the affected products if we cannot procure the components from another source. Such production interruptions could impede a ramp-up in vehicle production and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar, as well as other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our results of operations. In 2012, approximately 71% of our sales originated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. This translation is based on average exchange rates during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Separately, while we generally produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, our sales are more concentrated in U.S. dollars and in euros than our expenses, and therefore our profit margins and earnings could be reduced due to fluctuations or adverse trends in foreign currency exchange rates. While we employ financial instruments to hedge certain of these exposures, this does not insulate us completely from currency fluctuation effects. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States, and expanding our operations in certain emerging markets such as China and Brazil and building our business relationships with Asian automotive manufacturers are important elements of our growth strategy. Operations outside of the United States, particularly operations in emerging markets, are subject to various risks which may not be present or as significant for operations within U.S. markets, and our exposure to these risks increases as we expand. Government actions in markets subject to governmental control, both in terms of policy-setting as well as actions directly affecting our operations, and economic uncertainty in some geographic regions in which we operate, such as certain emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows in those areas. 16 Table of Contents Risks inherent in our international operations include: exposure to local economic conditions; wage inflation in emerging markets; social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions, particularly in certain European countries; increases in working capital requirements related to long supply chains or regional terms of business; currency exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; import or export licensing requirements; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; restrictive governmental actions such as restrictions on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; increased risk of corruption; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade and foreign investment; more expansive legal rights of foreign labor unions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises; exposure to local public health concerns and the resultant impact on economic and political conditions; and unsettled social and political conditions in general and possible terrorist attacks, drug cartel related violence or acts of war or expansion of hostilities. Further, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Our non-U.S. operations include joint ventures and other alliances, most significantly in the Asia-Pacific region. Additional risks characteristic of these arrangements include the risk of conflicts arising between us and our joint venture partners and the lack of unilateral control of management. We also risk circumstances where our joint venture partner may fail to satisfy its obligations, which could result in increased liabilities to us. Further, our ability to repatriate funds may be constrained by the terms of particular agreements with our joint venture partners. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations and, therefore, on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which may become more pronounced as we expand further in these areas. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, this could have a material adverse impact on our business and our competitive position. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. Further, as we expand our operations in jurisdictions where the protection of intellectual property rights is less robust, such as China where we are building a new research and development facility, the risk of others duplicating our proprietary technologies increases, despite efforts we undertake to protect them. Although management believes that the loss or expiration of any single intellectual property right would not have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position, there can be no assurance that multiple patents and other intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. As a result, developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect these rights, could materially adversely impact our business and our competitive position. Our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. For the year ended December 31, 2012, sales to our four largest customer groups on a worldwide basis were approximately 62% of our total sales. Although business with each customer is typically split among numerous contracts, if we lost a major customer or that customer significantly reduced its 17 Table of Contents purchases of our products, there could be a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Commodity inflationary pressures may adversely affect our profitability and the viability of our Tier 2 and Tier 3 supply base. The cost of most of the commodities we use in our business, such as ferrous metals, base metals, and petroleum-based products as well as energy and transportation costs, has increased significantly in the past few years. Although prices have not remained at peak levels for certain of our raw materials and manufactured components, such as steel, castings and rare earth metals, inflationary pressures have continued to increase for certain other commodities, such as leather rawhides, yarn and certain resins as examples. Further, as production increases, commodity inflationary pressures may increase, both in the automotive industry and in the broader economy. These pressures put significant operational and financial burdens on us and our suppliers, potentially resulting in declining margins and operating results. It is generally difficult to pass the full extent of increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers and, even if passed through to some extent, the recovery is typically on a delayed basis. Furthermore, our suppliers may not be able to handle the commodity cost increases. The unstable condition of some of our suppliers or their failure to perform has caused us to incur additional costs which negatively impacted certain of our businesses in 2012. If inflationary pressures worsen, our suppliers may not be able to perform as we expect, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Continuing pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our profitability. Pricing pressure in the automotive supply industry has been substantial and is likely to continue. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the contract. Estimating such amounts is subject to uncertainties because any price reductions are a result of negotiations with our customers and other factors. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may adversely affect our profitability. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. In our business we have an inherent risk of product liability and warranty claims, and we may be required to participate in product recalls. Vehicle manufacturers have experienced a higher level of recall campaigns in recent years, and are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product liability, warranty and recall claims. In addition, we have been subject to continuing efforts by our customers to change contract terms and conditions concerning warranty and recall participation. Further, as vehicle manufacturers lengthen their warranty commitments to consumers and the affected vehicles age, warranty claims may increase. Finally, we have experienced, and may continue to see, an increase in our costs to defend product liability cases, due to the bankruptcies of Chrysler LLC and General Motors Corporation. Given the foregoing and the uncertain nature of litigation of such matters, product liability, warranty and recall costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to governmental regulations that are already extensive and are growing, which will increase our costs and could adversely affect our business, reputation and results of operations. We and the automotive industry are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including those relating to the reporting of certain claims, and those affecting 18 Table of Contents taxes and levies, healthcare costs, and international trade and immigration, among other things, all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business. Further, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") was passed in 2010 generally to address practices in the financial services industry, but it also contained provisions relating to the origin of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, referred to as "conflict minerals." These provisions, together with the implementing regulations that were enacted in 2012, require companies to publicly disclose if they use in their products conflict minerals that were mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries and that supported armed groups in those areas. Companies are required to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry and, if required, due diligence to make this determination. We will incur costs in order to comply with these requirements, including those necessary to solicit our supply chain. Also, if we cannot conclude that our products are "conflict free" we may face reputational challenges, including that our customers may no longer be willing to purchase such products from us. These regulations may also adversely affect the supply and pricing of materials used in our products as suppliers alter their purchasing patterns. Other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including those relating to certain derivatives transactions, while directed at financial institutions, require us to devote management time and expend resources to determine and address the impact of those requirements on our operations. The same is true of the employer requirements under the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. In addition, compliance with complex U.S. and international laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business and, in some cases, restricts our ability to conduct business. These regulations are numerous and sometimes conflicting, and include import and export laws, sanctioned country restrictions, competition (or anti-trust) laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, data privacy requirements, tax laws and accounting requirements. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal fines, penalties and sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, as well as prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations. Further, compliance with the multiple applicable federal, state, local and international laws and regulations currently in effect, including those described above, or those that may be adopted in the future, could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company, we and our operations are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance with such laws and regulations at all times, and violations of these requirements could result in fines or sanctions, obligations to investigate or remediate contamination, third party property damage or personal injury claims due to the migration of contaminants off-site, or modification or revocation of our operating permits. As an owner and operator, we could also be responsible under some laws for responding to contamination detected at any of our operating sites or at third party sites to which our wastes were sent for disposal, regardless of whether we caused the contamination, or the legality of the original activity. Our costs or liabilities relating to these matters may be more than the amount we have reserved and the difference may be material. We have spent and will continue to spend money to comply with environmental requirements, which expenditures could be significant in order to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws that may be adopted in the future. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising 19 Table of Contents various environmental and health and safety claims, including certain asbestos-related claims. While our annual costs to defend and settle these claims in the past have not been material, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we cannot provide assurance that this will remain so in the future. Our pension and other postretirement benefits expense and the funding requirements of our pension plans could materially increase, reducing our profitability. Although we have taken action to limit our future liabilities under certain of our defined benefit pension plans, including the two largest (our U.S. salaried pension plan and our U.K. pension plan have both been frozen), a significant number of our employees and former employees are entitled to benefits under defined benefit pension plans or retirement/termination indemnity plans. The obligations and expense recognized in our financial statements for these plans is actuarially determined based on certain assumptions which are driven by market conditions, including interest rates. Additionally, market conditions impact the underlying value of the assets held by the plans for settlement of these obligations. Further declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could further negatively affect the funded status of these plans and the level and timing of required contributions in 2014 and beyond. Additionally, these factors could significantly increase our pension expense and reduce our profitability. We also sponsor other postretirement employee benefits ("OPEB") primarily in the United States and Canada. We fund our OPEB costs on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. We are subject to increased OPEB cash outlays and costs due to increasing health care costs, among other factors. Increases in the expected costs of health care in excess of current assumptions could increase our actuarially determined obligations and our related OPEB expense along with future cash outlays. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or the facilities of our customers or those in our supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to normal and ordinary labor negotiations or as a result of a specific labor dispute, a work stoppage may occur in our facilities or those of our customers or other suppliers. Actions taken to address negative industry trends in recent years, coupled with the industry recovery in North America, or social/political and economic pressures in Europe may have the effect of exacerbating labor relations problems which could increase the possibility of such a work stoppage. In addition, labor work stoppages by other groups on which the supply chain depends, such as port workers or other logistics groups, could also negatively impact us. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, either directly or as a result of a work stoppage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at our facilities or one of our own suppliers or others in the supply/delivery chain could limit or stop our production of or ability to deliver the affected products. Such interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A disruption in our information technology ("IT") systems could adversely impact our business and operations. We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our IT systems, some of which are managed by third parties, and our ability to continually update these systems in response to the changing needs of our business. We may incur significant costs in order to implement the security measures that we feel are appropriate to protect our IT Systems. However, despite the security measures we implement, our systems or data could be breached and/or damaged by computer viruses or unauthorized physical or electronic access. Such a breach could result in not only business disruption, but also theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets and/or unauthorized access to controlled data and personal information stored in connection with our human resources function. Any interruption or breach of our 20 Table of Contents IT systems could adversely affect our business operations. Further, as we continue to increase our use of centralized Shared Service Centers for efficiency purposes, the significance of any interruption or breach of the related IT systems will increase. To the extent that any data is lost or destroyed or any confidential information is inappropriately disclosed or used, it could adversely affect our competitive position, affect our relationships with our customers, harm our business and possibly lead to claims or liability based upon alleged breaches of contract or applicable laws. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, which may become impaired in the future, adversely affecting our financial condition. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired, and other identifiable intangible assets, including trademarks and customer relationships. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income. As of December 31, 2012, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled $1,756 million, or 16% of our total assets. We remain subject to future financial statement risk in the event that goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become further impaired. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 