Item 1A. Risk Factors We outline below factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ‘‘SEC’’). The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. However, these are the risks our management believes to be material. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our future business or results of operations. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Company If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be significantly adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. To the extent actual claims exceed our expectations, we will be required immediately to recognize the less favorable experience. This could cause a material increase in our provisions for liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and reduction of capital. To date, overall, we have not been required to make any of these adjustments. It is expected that in the future, the number of claims will increase, and their size and severity could exceed our expectations. If unpredictable catastrophic events occur, or if we fail to adequately manage our exposure to losses or fail to adequately estimate our reserve requirements, our actual losses and loss expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from our reserve estimates. We establish loss reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and loss expenses incurred with respect to premiums earned on the policies that we write. Under U.S. GAAP, we are not permitted to establish reserves for losses and loss expenses, which include case reserves and IBNR reserves, with respect to our property catastrophe reinsurance until an event which gives rise to a claim occurs. As a result, only reserves applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be set aside on our financial statements, with no allowance for the provision of loss reserves to account for possible other future losses with respect to our catastrophe-exposed reinsurance. Our current loss reserves are based on estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections at a given point in time of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of IBNR claims, based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in claim frequency and severity and variable factors such as inflation. We utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish appropriate loss reserves. Each of our Insurance Subsidiaries’ reserving process and methodology is subject to a quarterly review for which reserves are set at a group level as agreed by the Reserving Committee, the results of which are presented to and reviewed by our Audit Committee. Establishing an appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process. The inherent uncertainties of loss reserves generally are greater for the reinsurance business as compared to the insurance business, principally due to the necessary reliance on the ceding company or insurer for information regarding losses, and the lapse of time from the occurrence of the event to the reporting of the loss to the reinsurer and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the loss. In addition, although we conduct our due diligence on the transactions we underwrite in connection with our reinsurance business, we are also dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by the ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding clients may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. Accordingly, actual claims and loss expenses paid will likely deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by reference. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the occurrence of catastrophic events such as natural disasters. As a part of our insurance and reinsurance operations, we have assumed substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural disasters and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by 41 Table of Contents various events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather, floods, tornadoes, and wildfires. Many observers believe that the Atlantic basin is in the active phase of a multi-decadal cycle in which conditions in the ocean and atmosphere, including warmer-than-average sea-surface temperatures and low wind shear, enhance hurricane activity. This increase in the number and intensity of tropical storms and hurricanes can span multiple decades (approximately 20 to 30 years). The incidence and severity of such catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. The occurrence of large claims from catastrophic events may result in substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. In particular, we write a considerable amount of business that is exposed to U.S. hurricanes and windstorms and California earthquakes. This volatility is compounded by accounting regulations that do not permit reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences per year in the future and that climate change may increase the frequency of severe weather events. Underwriting is inherently a ma tter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to these events, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones or the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Events that are driven by U.S. hurricanes and windstorms or earthquakes in California in particular could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of any risk management and loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by analyzing the probability and severity of the occurrence of catastrophic events and the impact of such events on our overall reinsurance and investment portfolio. We use various tools to analyze and manage the reinsurance exposures we assume from ceding companies and risks from a catastrophic event that could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio. Our submission management system, along with our accumulation control system, enables us to simulate the effect on our portfolio’s probable maximum loss of different participations on each treaty ahead of each renewal period. This enables us to manage our aggregate exposures efficiently, control our probabilistic exposures and ensure that our capacity is deployed appropriately. Our proprietary risk modeling software enables us to assess the adequacy of risk pricing and to monitor our overall exposure to risk in correlated geographic zones. Our models a nd systems are new and relatively untested and we can give no assurance that the models and assumptions used will accurately predict losses. Further, we can give no assurance that it is free of defects in the modeling logic or in the software code. In addition, we have not sought copyright or other legal protection of our proprietary accumulation management system. In addition, much of the information that we enter into our risk modeling software is based on third-party data that we cannot assure to be reliable, as well as estimates and assumptions that are dependent on many variables, such as assumptions about demand surge and storm surge, loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value and storm intensity. Accordingly, if the estimates and assumptions that we enter into our proprietary risk model are incorrect, or if our proprietary risk model proves to be an inaccurate forecasting tool, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We seek to mitigate our loss exposure by writing a number of our insurance and reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, such that we must pay losses that exceed a specified retention. In addition, we limit program size for each client and purchase reinsurance for our own account. In the case of proportional reinsurance treaties, we seek per occurrence limitations or loss and loss expense 42 Table of Contents ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event, though we may not be able to obtain such limits based on market conditions at such time. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, negotiated to limit our risks may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. We cannot be sure that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective or that disputes relating to coverage will be resolved in our favor. As a result of the risks we insure and reinsure, unforeseen events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many of our contracts, particularly within our property reinsurance segment, are generally for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year’s contracts. If actual renewals do not meet expectations or if we choose not to write on a renewal basis because of pricing conditions, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. This risk is especially prevalent in the first quarter of each year when a larger number of reinsurance contacts are subject to renewal. Our Insurance Subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, S&P and Moody’s, and a decline in any of these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and customers and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. The ratings of our Insurance Subsidiaries are subject to periodic review by, and may be placed on creditwatch, revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best, S&P and/or Moody’s. On December 7, 2007, A.M. Best upgraded Aspen Bermuda’s financial strength rating to A (Excellent) from A− and affirmed Aspen U.K.’s rating financial strength rating of A (Excellent). If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by any of A.M. Best, Moody’s or S&P, our competitive position in the insurance industry would suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products and to expand our insurance and reinsurance portfolio and renew our existing insurance and reinsurance policies and agreements. A downgrade also may require us to establish trusts or post letters of credit for ceding company clients, and could trigger provisions allowing some ceding company clients to terminate their insurance and reinsurance contracts with us. Some contracts also provide for the return of earned premium to the ceding client in the event of a downgrade. It is increasingly common for our reinsurance contracts to contain such terms, though we would typically resist agreeing such terms. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as ceding companies and brokers that place such business move to other reinsurers with higher ratings and therefore may materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations, our liquidity and financial flexibility. In addition, several agreements we have with third parties would be impacted by a failure to maintain specified ratings. A downgrade of the financial strength rating of Aspen U.K., Aspen Bermuda or Aspen Specialty by A.M. Best below ‘‘B++’’ or by S&P below ‘‘A−’’ would constitute an event of default under our revolving credit facility with Barclays Bank PLC, which might adversely impact our liquidity and financial flexibility. 43 Table of Contents The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that are more difficult than those made in a more mature company because we have more limited annual historical information through December 31, 2007. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including reserves), revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, insurance and other reserves, reinsurance recoverables, investment valuations, intangible assets, bad debts, income taxes, contingencies, risk transfer swap and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience, where possible, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and judgments for a relatively new insurance and reinsurance company, like us, are more difficult to make than those made for a more mature company because we have more limited annual historical information through December 31, 2007. A significant part of our current loss reserves is in respect of IBNR. This IBNR reserve is based almost entirely on estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs. In addition to limited historical information, we utilize actuarial models as well as historical insurance industry loss development patterns to establish loss reserves. Accordingly, actual claims and claim expenses paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. Our purchase of reinsurance subjects us to third-party credit risk, such reinsurance may not be available on favorable terms or we may choose to retain a higher proportion of particular risks than in previous years. We purchase reinsurance for our own account in order to mitigate the effect of certain large and multiple losses upon our financial condition. These reinsurers are dependent on their ratings in order to continue to write business, and a few have suffered downgrades in ratings as a result of their exposure to hurricanes in the past. A reinsurer’s insolvency, its inability to continue to write business or its reluctance to make timely payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material adverse effect on us because we remain liable to the reinsured. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amount of retrocession protection on terms that are acceptable to us from entities with a satisfactory credit rating. We also may choose to retain a higher proportion of particular risks than in previous years due to pricing, terms and conditions or strategic emphasis. We have sought alternative ways of reducing our risk such as catastrophe bonds, and we may seek other ways such as sidecars or other capital market solutions, which solutions may not provide commensurate levels of protection compared to traditional retrocession. Our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance or other protection for our own account could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and fina ncial condition. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. A recent example of emerging claims and coverage issues is the growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of business in the insurance industry. 44 Table of Contents In addition, we are unable to predict the extent to which the courts may expand the theory of liability under a casualty insurance contract, such as the range of the occupational hazards causing losses under employers’ liability insurance. In particular, our exposure to casualty reinsurance and U.K. liability insurance increases our potential exposure to this risk due to the uncertainties of expanded theories of liability and the ‘‘long-tail’’ nature of these lines of business. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. We may face increased exposure as a result of litigation related to the sub-prime housing market crisis. Shareholders are bringing securities class actions against companies and lawsuits against company executives and officers at U.S. sub-prime lenders, real estate investment trusts (REITs), and certain financial institutions. Actions like this could result in significant professional liability claims on director and officer (D&O) and errors and omissions (E&O) policies. The full extent of our liability and exposure to international financial institutions and U.S. professional liability claims in our casualty reinsurance segment may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Our exposure to this uncertainty will grow as our long-tail casualty businesses grow, because in these lines claims can typically be made for many years, making them more susceptible to these trends than other lines of business, which may be more typically ‘‘ short-tail.’’ We may fail to mitigate our exposure to these growing uncertainties. The aggregated risks associated with reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us. In our reinsurance business, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under most reinsurance treaties. This is common among reinsurers. Therefore, we are largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We are subject to the risk that the ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism and political unrest, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have substantial exposure to large, unexpected losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages we write, we may not be successful in doing so. For example, we generally exclude acts of terrorism and losses stemming from nuclear, biological, chemical and radioactive events; however, some states in the United States do not permit exclusion of fires following terrorist attacks from insurance policies and reinsurance treaties. Where we believe we are able to obtain pricing that adequately covers our exposure, we have written a limited number of reinsurance contracts covering solely the peril of terrorism, including losses stemming from nuclear, biological, chemical and radioactive events. These risks are inherently unpredictable and recent events may lead to increased frequenc y and severity of losses. It is difficult to predict the timing of these events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. To the extent that losses from these risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more principal employees or by an inability to attract and retain staff. Our success will depend in substantial part upon our ability to retain our principal employees and to attract additional employees. We rely substantially upon the services of our senior management team. Although we have employment agreements with all of the members of our senior management team, if we were to unexpectedly lose the services of members of our senior management team our business could be adversely affected. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. 45 Table of Contents The loss of underwriters or underwriting teams could adversely affect us. Our success has depended, and will continue to depend, in substantial part upon our ability to attract and retain our team of underwriters in various business lines. Although we are not aware of any planned departures, the loss of one or more of our senior underwriters could adversely impact our business by, for example, making it more difficult to retain clients or other business contacts whose relationship depends in part on the service of the departing personnel. In addition, the loss of services of underwriters could strain our ability to execute our new business lines, as described elsewhere in this report. In general, the loss of key services of any members of our current underwriting teams may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. From time to time, we may need to hire additional employees to work in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. In April 2001, the Bermuda government announced a policy limiting the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. The government in Bermuda has also considered from time to time, legislation that could impose burdens on companies that may make it more difficult to operate in Bermuda. Only three members of Aspen Bermuda’s management team (or other officers) based in Bermuda are Bermudian. As of December 31,&nb sp;2007, we had 57 employees in Bermuda. Three of these employees are Julian Cusack, the current Chairman and CEO of Aspen Bermuda, James Few, our Head of Property Reinsurance and Kate Vacher, our Underwriting Director. Julian Cusack, James Few and Kate Vacher are non-Bermudian and are working under work permits that have expired or will expire in March 2008. We have submitted applications for renewal which are currently pending with the Department of Immigration for consideration. Messrs. Cusack and Few and Ms. Vacher have key worker status and therefore term limits do not apply. In such case, their work permits would only not be renewed in the event that a Bermudian is qualified to perform their duties. In 2007, we recruited and continue to recruit additional employees to work in Bermuda for the Company or Aspen Bermuda. None of our current Bermuda employees for whom we have applied for a work permit has been denied. It is possible that we could lose the services of Julian Cusack, James Few, Kate Vacher or another key employee who is non-Bermudian if we were unable to obtain or renew their work permits, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. We may be unable to enter into sufficient reinsurance security arrangements and the cost of these arrangements may materially impact our margins. As non-U.S. reinsurers, Aspen Bermuda and Aspen U.K. are required to post collateral security with respect to liabilities they assume from ceding insurers domiciled in the United States. The posting of collateral security is generally required in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain credit in their U.S. statutory financial statements with respect to liabilities ceded to unlicensed or unaccredited reinsurers. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by third-party trustees or funds-withheld arrangements whereby the trust assets are held by the ceding company. Aspen U.K. and Aspen Bermuda are required to post letters of credit or establish other security for their U.S. cedants in an amount equal to 100% of reinsurance recoverables under the agreements to which they are a party with the U.S. cedants. In late 2007, chief insurance regulators in both Florida and New York proposed similar ‘‘ratings based’’ credit for reinsurance proposals. In relevant part, non-U.S. reinsurers like Aspen U.K. that are located in approved jurisdictions and that maintain (i) minimum capital and surplus of at least $250 million and (ii) specified ratings from at least two nationally recognized rating agencies, would be able to reduce their current reinsurance funding level of 100% of gross reinsurance liabilities. 46 Table of Contents U.S. cedants would still be able to take 100% statement credit, at least for purposes of financial statements filed in Florida and New York, despite Aspen U.K.’s reduced funding. It is uncertain when such proposals will be formally promulgated as regulations and if promulgation will go unchallenged by opponents of reinsurance collateral reduction. We have currently in place letters of credit facilities and trust funds, as further described in Part II, Item 7, ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity,’’ to satisfy these requirements. If these facilities are not sufficient or if we are unable to renew these facilities at their expiration due to credit market constraints or unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, the ability of Aspen Bermuda and Aspen U.K. to provide reinsurance to U.S.-based clients may be severely limited. Security arrangements may subject our assets to security interests and/or require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties and, consequently, reduce the liquidity of our assets. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these asse ts is governed by the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer, which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda or U.K. law or under our investment guidelines. These restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. As at December 31, 2007, we have $1,953.2 million in such trust funds. Government authorities are continuing to investigate the insurance industry, which may adversely affect our business. The attorneys general for multiple states and other insurance regulatory authorities have been investigating a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry, and in particular insurance brokerage practices. These investigations of the insurance industry in general, whether involving the company specifically or not, together with any legal or regulatory proceedings, related settlements and industry reform or other changes arising therefrom, may materially adversely affect our business and future financial results or results of operations. In addition, the European Commission has clarified its approach to the application of EU competition law in the commercial insurance and reinsurance sectors. On September 25, 2007 the European Commission published a report (Sector Inquiry under Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 on business insurance (Final Report) COM (2007) 556) setting out its main findings. Aspen U.K. was not among the many companies to receive formal requests for information about business practices from the European Commission. Aspen U.K. does not currently consider that the Report has implications for Aspen U.K.’s business practices, but the Commission’s approach may well change. To the extent that state regulation of brokers and intermediaries becomes more onerous, costs of regulatory compliance for Aspen Management, ASIS, Aspen Re America and ARA-CA will increase. Finally, to the extent that any of the brokers with whom we do business suffer financial difficulties as a result of the investigations or proceedings, we could suffer increased credit risk. See ‘‘—Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk’’ and ‘‘—Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our insurance and reinsurance revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us’’ below. Recent investigations of certain reinsurance accounting practices could adversely affect our business. Certain reinsurance contracts are highly customized and typically involve complicated structural elements. U.S. GAAP governs whether or not a contract should be accounted for as reinsurance. Contracts that do not meet these U.S. GAAP requirements may not be accounted for as reinsurance and are required to be accounted for as deposits. These contracts also require judgments regarding the timing of accruals under U.S. GAAP. As reported in the press, certain insurance and reinsurance arrangements involving other companies, and the accounting judgments that they have made, are coming under scrutiny by the New York Attorney General’s Office, the SEC and other governmental authorities. At this time, we are unable to predict the ultimate effects, if any, that these industry investigations and related settlements may have upon the accounting for reinsurance and related 47 Table of Contents industry practices or what, if any, changes may be made to practices involving financial reporting. Changes to any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts to brokers and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased insurance or reinsurance from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency because of local laws or contractual obligations. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers around the world with respec t to most of our insurance and reinsurance business. However, due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk. To date, we have not experienced any material losses related to such credit risks. Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our insurance and reinsurance revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. We market our insurance and reinsurance worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. See Item 1, ‘‘Business—Business Distribution’’ for our principal brokers by segment. Several of these brokers also have, or may in the future acquire, ownership interests in insurance and reinsurance companies that compete with us, and these brokers may favor their own insurers or reinsurers over other companies. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third-party service providers for some claims handling. We rely on third-party service providers to assist in handling some claims activity. If our third-party service providers fail to perform as expected, it could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. If we fail to develop the necessary infrastructure as we grow, our future financial results may be adversely affected. Our expansion in the United Kingdom, United States and Bermuda and our establishment of branch offices in Dublin, Paris and Zurich have placed and will continue to place increased demands on our financial, managerial and human resources. In addition, the increased regulatory complexity of our business brought about by operating in multiple jurisdictions increases our regulatory risk profile. To the extent we are unable to attract additional professionals, our financial, managerial and human resources may be strained. The growth in our staff and infrastructure also creates more managerial responsibilities for our current senior executives, potentially diverting their attention from the underwriting and business origination functions for which they are also responsible. We have developed and are in the process of implementing new information technology systems, including underwriting and financial support systems. To the extent we are not able to develop and imple ment new systems that meet our business needs, we may be required to continue with our existing arrangements or accept a less sophisticated system. Our future profitability depends in part on our ability to further develop our resources and effectively manage such transition or expansion. Our inability to achieve such development or effective management may impair our future financial results. 48 Table of Contents Acquisitions or strategic investments that we may make could turn out to be unsuccessful. As part of our strategy, we may pursue growth through acquisitions and/or strategic investments in businesses. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or strategic investments as well as the integration of an acquired business or new personnel could result in a substantial diversion of management resources. Acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks such as potential losses from unanticipated litigation, higher levels of claims than is reflected in reserves and an inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Any future acquisitions may expose us to operational risks including: • integrating financial and operational reporting systems; • establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls; • funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses; • the value of assets acquired may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and liabilities assumed may be greater than expected; and • financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us. We have limited experience in identifying quality merger candidates, as well as successfully acquiring and integrating their operations. Our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions or strategic investments will depend, in part, on our success in addressing these risks. Any failure by us to effectively implement our acquisitions or strategic investment strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may fail to execute our strategy in our new lines of business, which would impair our future financial results. Our expansion in 2007 into new lines of business such as professional liability insurance, excess casualty and non-marine and transportation liability and our expansion in 2008 into political risk and financial institutions present us with new and expanded challenges and risks which we may not manage successfully. We are continuing to expand our claims management function to support these new lines of business. In general, our techniques for evaluating and modeling risk in these new lines of business are not as developed as the models for pre-existing lines of business. If we fail to continue to develop the necessary infrastructure, or otherwise fail to execute our strategy, our results from these new lines of business will likely suffer, perhaps substantially, and our future financial results may be adversely affected. Our investment performance may affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. Our funds are invested by several professional investment management firms under the direction of our Investment Committee in accordance with detailed investment guidelines set by us. See ‘‘Business—Investments’’ under Item 1, above. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to general economic conditions, market risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. Consequences of the recent defaults in the U.S. sub-prime mortgage market, and the significant ratings downgrades of some credits, may put our investments at risk. Separately, the occurrence of large claims may force us to liquidate securities at an inopportune time, which may cause us to incur capital losses. Large investment losses could decrease our asset base, thereby affecting our ability to underwrite new business. For the twelve months ended Decemb er 31, 2007, 52.1% or $299.0 million, of our operating income was derived from our net invested assets. 49 Table of Contents Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our alternative investment portfolio could significantly and negatively affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. As of December 31, 2007, we have invested 9.5% of our investment portfolio in funds of hedge funds. The funds of hedge funds in which we invest follow strategies that involve investing in a broad range of investments, some of which may be volatile. Further, because the funds in which we invest impose limitations on the timing of withdrawals, we may be unable to withdraw our investment from a particular fund on a timely basis. Unexpected volatility or illiquidity associated with our alternative investment portfolio could significantly and negatively affect our financial results and ability to conduct business. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our operating results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains fixed income securities which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. The movement of market interest rates has been volatile during 2007. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, funds reinvested will earn less than expected. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a portfolio, diversified by obligor and emphasizing higher-rated securities, with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. Profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the severity of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Our calculation of reserves for losses and loss expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims-handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. We write liability/casualty business in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia, where claims’ inflation has grown particularly strong in recent years. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. We may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. Our reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar. The functional currencies of our segments are the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 10.3%, 12.1% and 9.2% respectively of our gross premiums were written in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound. A portion of our loss reserves and investments are also in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar and the British Pound. We may, from time to time, experience losses resulting from fluctuations in the values of these non-U.S./non-British currencies, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have used forward exchange contracts to manage our foreign currency exposure. However, it is possible that we will not successfully structure those contracts so as to effectively manage these risks. 50 Table of Contents The regulatory system under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business. General. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not be able to maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in territories where we currently engage in business or obtain them in new territories, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. In addition, we may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, the wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies or holding companies. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or to engage in certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on o ur business. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business. See ‘‘Business—Regulatory Matters’’ in Item 1, above. Aspen U.K. Aspen U.K. has authorization from the FSA to write all classes of general insurance business in the United Kingdom. As an FSA authorized insurer, the insurance and reinsurance businesses of Aspen U.K. will be subject to close supervision by the FSA. Changes in the FSA’s requirements from time to time may have an adverse impact on the business of Aspen U.K. If any entity were to hold 20% or more of the voting rights or 20% or more of the issued ordinary shares of Aspen Holdings, transactions between Aspen U.K. and such entity may have to be reported to the FSA if the value of those transactions exceeds certain threshold amounts that would render them material connected party transactions. In these circumstances, we can give no assurance that these material connected party transactions will not be subject to regulatory intervention by the FSA. See Part III, Item 13, ‘‘Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.’’ Aspen U.K. is required to provide the FSA with information about Aspen Holdings’ notional solvency, which involves calculating the solvency position of Aspen Holdings in accordance with the FSA’s rules. In this regard, if Aspen Bermuda or Aspen Specialty were to experience financial difficulties, it could affect the ‘‘solvency’’ position of Aspen Holdings and in turn trigger regulatory intervention by the FSA with respect to Aspen U.K. Furthermore, any transactions between Aspen U.K., Aspen Specialty and Aspen Bermuda that are material connected party transactions would also have to be reported to the FSA. We can give no assurance that the existence or effect of such connected party transactions and the FSA’s assessment of the overall solvency of Aspen Holdings and its subsidiaries, even in circumstances where Aspen U.K. has on its face sufficient assets of its own to cover its required margin of solvency, would not resu lt in regulatory intervention by the FSA with regard to Aspen U.K. In addition, given that the framework for supervision of insurance and reinsurance companies in the United Kingdom must comply with E.U. directives (which are implemented by member states through national legislation), changes at the E.U. level may affect the regulatory scheme under which Aspen U.K. will operate. A general review of E.U. insurance directives, known as ‘‘Solvency II’’, is currently in progress and may lead to changes such as increased or risk-based minimum capital requirements though these are not expected to be introduced in the near future. On December 10, 2005 the EU Reinsurance Directive came into force. Member states had until December 9, 2007 to implement the directive into domestic law. The U.K. completed its implementation of the E.U. Reinsurance Directive on December 10, 2007. Reinsurance business is already subject to regulation in the U.K. and the implementation of the Reinsurance Direct ive is unlikely to materially adversely affect Aspen U.K. However, we can give no assurance that this will be the case. In addition, the E.U. Reinsurance Directive could have an adverse effect on our other Insurance Subsidiaries, such as Aspen Bermuda, as in order to conduct reinsurance business in an EEA state, Aspen Bermuda would be required to comply with the regulations set out in such state, which may differ in each state. Therefore, it may be more difficult for Aspen Bermuda to write reinsurance business in EEA states. Similarly we can give no assurance that E.U. competition laws will not be applied within the sectors in which Aspen U.K. is currently active. Although Aspen U.K. does not currently expect to be adversely affected by any follow-on enforcement action by the European Commission as a result of 51 Table of Contents the Commission’s report on competition in the commercial insurance and reinsurance sectors (Sector Inquiry under Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 on business insurance (Final Report) COM (2007) 556), unexpected changes to market practices may be necessary or desirable as a result of any action taken by the Commission. The Direct Offshore Foreign Insurers legislation (DOFI bill) was passed in Australia which requires any insurer wanting to carry on insurance business in Australia to be authorized with the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority from July 1, 2008, a process which is currently taking 6-12 months to obtain. Even though Aspen U.K. has lodged its initial application, if Aspen U.K. is not authorized by such date, our business could be adversely affected on as we will not be able to accept any placement of insurance business in the Australian market. The FSA requires insurers and reinsurers to calculate their ECR which includes capital charges based on assets, claims and premiums. The level of ECR seems likely to be at least twice the existing required minimum solvency margin for most companies, although the FSA had already adopted an informal approach of encouraging companies to hold at least twice the current E.U. minimum. In addition, the FSA may give guidance regularly to insurers under ‘‘individual capital guidance,’’ which may result in guidance that a company should hold in excess of the ECR. These changes may increase the required regulatory capital of Aspen U.K. Aspen U.K. is presently admitted to do business in the United Kingdom and is authorized to conduct business in Canada, Zurich, Ireland and other EEA states. We can give no assurance, however, that insurance regulators in the United States, Bermuda or elsewhere will not review the activities of Aspen U.K. and claim that Aspen U.K. is subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing or other requirements. Aspen Bermuda. Aspen Bermuda is a registered Class 4 Bermuda insurance and reinsurance company. Among other matters, Bermuda statutes, regulations and policies of the BMA require Aspen Bermuda to maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, to meet solvency standards, to obtain prior approval of ownership and transfer of shares and to submit to certain periodic examinations of its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict Aspen Bermuda’s ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, to make certain investments and to distribute funds. The BMA intends to introduce within the next year a risk-based capital adequacy test for major insurance companies in Bermuda, namely Class 4 insurers like Aspen Bermuda. The BMA’s proposed risk-based system would introduce a standardized modelling tool and regulatory changes which once implemented may result in increased capital requirements and scrutiny for Aspen Bermuda. We do not believe that the BMA’s risk-based approach will have a material impact on Aspen Bermuda’s operations. Aspen Bermuda does not maintain a principal office, and its personnel do not solicit, advertise, settle claims or conduct other activities that may constitute the transaction of the business of insurance or reinsurance, in any jurisdiction in which it is not licensed or otherwise not authorized to engage in such activities. Although Aspen Bermuda does not believe it is or will be in violation of insurance laws or regulations of any jurisdiction outside Bermuda, inquiries or challenges to Aspen Bermuda’s insurance or reinsurance activities may still be raised in the future. The offshore insurance and reinsurance regulatory environment has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States and various states within the United States. Compliance with any new laws, regulations or settlements impacting offshore insurers or reinsurers, such as Aspen Bermuda, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Aspen Specialty. Aspen Specialty is organized in and has received a license to write certain lines of insurance business in the State of North Dakota and, as a result, is subject to North Dakota law and regulation under the supervision of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of North Dakota. The North Dakota Commissioner of Insurance also has regulatory authority over a number of affiliate transactions between Aspen Specialty and other members of our holding company system. The purpose of the state insurance regulatory statutes is to protect U.S. insureds and U.S. ceding insurance 52 Table of Contents companies, not our shareholders or noteholders. Among other matters, state insurance regulations will require Aspen Specialty to maintain minimum levels of capital, surplus and liquidity, require Aspen Specialty to comply with applicable risk-based capital requirements and will impose restrictions on the payment of dividends and distributions. These statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of Aspen Specialty to write new business or distribute assets to Aspen Holdings. In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. In addition, some members of Congress have begun to explore whether the federal government should play a greater role in the regulation of insurance. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly examine existing laws and regulations. Changes in federal or state laws and regulations or the interpretation of such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the World Trade Center tragedy, TRIA was enacted in 2002 to ensure the availability of insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the United States. This law has been extended twice, most recently on December 26, 2007, and is currently scheduled to expire on December 31, 2014. TRIA established a federal assistance program to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism related losses and regulates the terms of insurance relating to terrorism coverage. In addition to extending the program, the 2007 legislation made certain other changes in the TRIA statute, the most significant of which was to extend the scope of the program to include acts of terrorism committed by domestic (i.e., U.S.) persons (the scope was previously limited to acts of terrorism committed by non-U.S. persons.) Thus, effective December 26, 2007, Aspen Specialty is required to offer terrorism coverage including both domestic and foreign terrorism, and must therefore adjust the pricing of TRIA coverage as appropriate to reflect the broader scope of coverage being provided. New laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations or the interpretation of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our ability to pay dividends or to meet ongoing cash requirements may be constrained by our holding company structure. We are a holding company and, as such, have no substantial operations of our own. We do not expect to have any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our Insurance Subsidiaries. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our Insurance Subsidiaries are expected to be our sole source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including our debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to our shareholders. Our Insurance Subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends. The inability of our Insurance Subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business. See ‘‘Business—Regulatory Matters—Bermuda Regulation—Minimum Solvency Margin and Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions,&rs quo;’ ‘‘Business—Regulatory Matters —U.K. and E.U. Regulation—Restrictions on Dividend Payments,’’ and ‘‘Business—Regulatory Matters—U.S. Regulation—North Dakota State Dividend Limitations’’ in Item 1 above. Certain regulatory and other constraints may limit our ability to pay dividends. We are subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act, we may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if we have reasonable grounds to believe that we are, and would after the payment be, able to pay our liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of our assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and issued share capital 53 Table of Contents and share premium accounts. If you require dividend income you should carefully consider these risks before investing in us. For more information regarding restrictions on the payment of dividends by us and our Insurance Subsidiaries, see ‘‘Business—Regulatory Matters’’ in Item 1 above and ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity’’ in Part II, Item 7. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully, to deploy capital into more profitable business lines, to identify acquisition opportunities and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. We monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis. To the extent that our funds are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and/or cover claim losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Our additional needs for capital will depend on our actual claims experience, especially for any catastrophic events. Any equity, hybrid or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry We operate in a highly competitive environment, and substantial new capital inflows into the insurance and reinsurance industry may increase competition. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. See ‘‘Business—Competition’’ in Item 1 above for a list of our competitors. We compete primarily on the basis of experience, the strength of our client relationships, reputation, premiums charged, policy and contract terms and conditions, products offered, speed of claims payment, overall financial strength, ratings and scope of business (both by size and geographic location). A number of Bermuda-based insurance and reinsurance entities compete in the same market segments in which we operate and have also raised additional capital to support their operations. Many of these entities derive their profits primarily through Bermuda operations and, consequently, may achieve a lower overall global effective tax rate than we do. In addition, as a result of the increases in premium rates in 2006 and 2007 in selected lines of business due to the 2005 hurricanes, a number of new Bermuda-based start-up entities have raised capital and compete in lines of business similar to our lines of business. Several insurance and reinsurance entities have also entered into reinsurance arrangements with ‘‘sidecar’’ reinsurers, enabling those entities to increase their reinsurance capacity and thereby increasing competition for reinsurance contracts. We may not be aware of additional companies that may be planning to enter the lines of business of the insurance and reinsurance market in which we operate or of existing companies that may be planning to raise additional capital. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could have a material adverse impact on our growth and profitability. We have recently experienced increased competition in some lines of business which has caused a decline in rate increases or a reduction in rates. In addition, insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously, and industrial and commercial companies have been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than risk transferring insurance. This has put downward pressure on insurance premiums. 54 Table of Contents Further, insurance/risk-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and derivatives and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanisms and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities, which could impact the demand for traditional insurance and reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could also increase competition in our industries. New competition could cause the demand for insurance or reinsurance to fall or the expense of customer acquisition and retention to increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Recent events may result in political, regulatory and industry initiatives which could adversely affect our business. The supply of insurance and reinsurance coverage is impacted by governmental initiatives, such as those following withdrawal of capacity and substantial reductions in capital following each of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the 2004 and 2005 hurricanes in the United States. At such time, the tightening of supply resulted in governmental intervention in the insurance and reinsurance markets, both in the United States and worldwide. Government-sponsored initiatives in other countries to address the risk of losses from terrorist attacks are similarly subject to change which may impact our business. For example, on November 26, 2002, TRIA was enacted and has been extended and amended twice since then, most recently on December 26, 2007. TRIA is intended to ensure the availability of insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the United States. This law requires insurers writing certain lines of property and casualty insurance to offer coverage against certain acts of terrorism causing damage within the United States or to U.S. flagged vessels or aircraft. In return, the law requires the federal government to indemnify such insurers for 85% of insured losses resulting from covered acts of terrorism, subject to a premium-based deductible. In addition to extending the program, the 2007 legislation made certain other changes in the TRIA statute, the most significant of which was to extend the scope of the program to include acts of terrorism committed by domestic (i.e., U.S.) persons (the scope was previously limited to acts of terrori sm committed by non-U.S. persons.) Thus, effective December 26, 2007, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage including both domestic and foreign terrorism, and must therefore adjust the pricing of TRIA coverage to reflect the broader scope of coverage being provided. In addition, following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, certain states adopted rules and orders restricting the ability of insurers to cancel and non-renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Regulations and orders that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict Aspen Specialty’s ability to exit unprofitable markets or adjust its participation levels and may impact Aspen U.K. as well. During 2007, certain states, e.g., Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas, considered changes to the local ‘‘wind pools’’; i.e., mechanisms to spread storm losses in coastal locations to all licensed property insurers. While none of these states is able to assess surplus lines insurers to pay for wind pool shortfalls, surplus lines policies can be assessed in Louisiana and Mississippi, as in Florida. Insureds, rather than surplus lines insurers, pay such assessments. These same states are likely to consider expanding state owned, publicly funded risk bearing entities that would support licensed property insurers with respect to hurricane losses sustained by properties in coastal locations. To the extent that such entities are expanded in one or more states, business that might otherwise have been placed on a surplus lines basis would be retained by licensed insurers and licensed insurers would be less inclined to purchase reinsurance from priva te market reinsurers such as Aspen U.K. or Aspen Bermuda. We are currently unable to predict how states that continue to be affected by the risk of hurricanes will respond with regulatory restrictions on surplus lines insurers and how this may affect the demand for, pricing of, or the supply of our products or the risks that our customers may expect us, and our competitors, to underwrite. Any significant regulatory restrictions in the markets in which we operate may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 55 Table of Contents For example, in January 2007, Florida enacted legislation that doubled the aggregate reinsurance capacity of the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund (the ‘‘FHCF’’), the reinsurance facility established by the state, from $16 billion to approximately $32 billion. In addition, the legislation reduced the industry loss retention level from $6 billion to $5 billion, $4 billion or $3 billion, as determined by participants. During the 2008 to 2009 hurricane seasons, the legislation also adds coverage above and below the existing FHCF program. Under the Florida legislation, the state-run insurer of last resort, Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, has also increased its underwriting capacity and has greater freedom to charge lower rates. In addition, Citizens Property Insurance Corporation has recently obtained approval to write commercial property insurance business. The capacity extension, lower retention levels and authorization to write commercial property insurance will lead to an increase in government-sponsored entities’ share of Florida’s property catastrophe re/insurance market and may impact our business plan. Other U.S. states; e.g., Georgia, are considering similar capacity expansions of their state-sponsored pools. Current legal and regulatory activities relating to insurance brokers and agents, contingent commissions, and bidding practices could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, future operating results and/or liquidity. Contingent commission arrangements and finite‐risk reinsurance have been a focus of investigations by the SEC, the U.S. Attorney’s Offices, certain state Attorneys General and insurance departments. Due to various governmental investigations into contingent commission practices, various market participants have modified or eliminated acquisition expenses formerly arising from Placement Service Agreements (‘‘PSAs’’). As a result, it is possible that policy commissions or brokerage that we pay may increase in the future and/or that different forms of contingent commissions will develop in the future. Any such additional expense could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions or results. At this time, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that this lawsuit may have upon us, the insurance and reinsurance markets in general or industry and reinsurance business practices or what, if any, changes may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition on price and policy terms due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. The supply of insurance and reinsurance may increase, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing or new insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Although premium levels for many products have increased in the recent past, we are entering a softening market in most of our lines of business. In respect of current market conditions, see Part II, Item 7, ‘‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market Conditions, Rate Trends and Developments in 2008.’’ Any of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium r ates, less favorable policy terms and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance business significantly, and we expect to experience the effects of such cyclicality. 56 Table of Contents The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted, and the frequency and severity of such loss activity has recently fluctuated greatly and industry models may not adequately predict such losses. The 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons showed a marked increase in windstorm activity, and although the 2006 and 2007 seasons were relatively more benign, the possibility of greater hurricane losses may continue in future seasons. Both the total number of storms and their intensity were greater than recent years, as were corresponding claims and loss activity, as evidenced by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005. We must assess the likelihood that this increased windstorm activity will continue. In any event, the customary industry-accepted methods of underwriting, reserving or investing may not be adequate and we may need to develop new means of managing risks related to catastrophes. For example, industry catastrophe pricing, accumulation and estimated loss models use historical information about hurricanes and earthquakes and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. Although the industry and we use models developed by third-party vend ors in assessing our exposure to catastrophe pricing, accumulation and estimated losses, which assume various conditions and probability scenarios, such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. These models have been evolving since the early 1990s. While we use this information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to their usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. These limitations are evidenced by: significant variation in estimates between models and modelers; material increases and decreases in model results over time due to changes in the models and refinement of the underlying data elements and assumptions; questionable predictive capability over time intervals; and post-event measurement that have provided ranges of estimates that have not been well understood or proven to be sufficiently reliable. In addition, the models are not necessarily reflective of policy language, mold losses, demand surges, accumulations of losses under similar policies and loss adjustment expenses, each of which are subject to wide variation by storm. We may not be able to adequately assess and reserve for the increased frequency and severity of catastrophes due to environmental factors, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. To assess our loss exposure, we rely on natural catastrophe models that are built partly on science, partly on historical data and partly on professional judgment of our employees and other industry specialists. Although the accuracy of the models significantly improved in the last few years, they still yield significant variations in loss estimates due to the quality of underlying data and assumptions. Interpretation of modeling results remains subjective, and none of the existing models reflects our policy language, demand surges and other storm-specific factors such as where the storms will actually travel. There is little consensus in the scientific community regarding the effect of global environmental factors on catastrophes. Climatologists concur that heat from the ocean drives hurricanes, but they cannot agree how much it changes the annual outlook. In addition, scientists have recently recorded rising sea temperatures which may result in higher frequency and severity of windstorms. It is unclear whether rising sea temperatures are part of a longer cycle and if they are caused or aggravated by man-made pollution or other factors. Given the scientific uncertainty about the causes of increased frequency and severity of catastrophes and the lack of adequate predictive tools, we may not be able to adequately model the associated losses, which would adversely affect our profitability. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Future sales of ordinary shares may affect their market price and the future exercise of options may result in immediate and substantial dilution. As of December 31, 2007, there were 85,626,457 ordinary shares outstanding. Of these shares, a substantial majority are freely transferable, except for any shares sold to our ‘‘affiliates,’’ as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. 57 Table of Contents On December 21, 2007, we filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form F-3 with the SEC for an unlimited number of ordinary shares that may be offered for sale by some of our shareholders. We have entered into an amended and restated registration rights agreement, dated November 14, 2003, with founding shareholders, pursuant to which we may be required to register our ordinary shares held by such parties under the Securities Act. At any time any remaining founding shareholder or group of shareholders (other than directors, officers or employees of the Company) that holds in the aggregate at least $50 million of our shares has the right to request registration for a public offering of all or a portion of its shares, subject to the limitations and restrictions provided in the agreement. We may effect any such future registration request under the Form F-3, in which case the related public offering may occur on short notice. Any announcement relating to a registration, offering or sale of our ordinary shares, under the Form F-3 or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. With respect to any outstanding ordinary shares that have not been registered, they may not be sold in the absence of registration under the Securities Act unless an exemption from registration is available, including the exemptions contained in Rule 144. Under Rule 144(k), a person who is not our affiliate, and who has not been our affiliate at any time during the 90 days preceding any sale, is entitled to sell the shares without regard to the foregoing limitations, provided that at least two years have elapsed since the shares were acquired from us or any affiliate of ours. A large percentage of our initial investors have held a portion of our ordinary shares for at least two years, although some of those investors may be deemed our affiliates. Moreover, as of February 1, 2008, an additional 1,302,757 ordinary shares were issuable upon the full exercise on a cash basis of outstanding options by Appleby Services (Bermuda) Ltd, formerly Appleby (Bermuda) Trust Limited (the ‘‘Names’ Trustee’’), as successor trustee of the Names’ Trust, which holds the options (the ‘‘Names’ Options’’) and shares for the benefit of the members of Syndicate 2020 who are not corporate members of Wellington. The Names’ Trustee may exercise its options on a cashless basis, which allows it to realize the economic benefit of the difference between the subscription price under the options and the then prevailing market price without having to pay the subscription price for any such ordinary shares in cash. Thus, the option holder receives fewer shares upon exercise. Ordinary shares issued upon the exercise of options on a cashless basis will be issue d as a bonus issue of shares in accordance with section 40(2)(a) of the Companies Act. This section provides that the share premium account of a company may be applied in paying up shares issued to shareholders as fully paid shares. This cashless exercise feature may provide an incentive for Wellington and the Names’ Trustee to exercise their options more quickly. In the event that the outstanding options to purchase ordinary shares are exercised, you will suffer immediate and substantial dilution of your investment. In addition, we have filed registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register ordinary shares issued or reserved for issuance under our share incentive plan and our non-employee director plan and our non-employee director plan. Subject to the exercise of issued and outstanding options and shareholder agreements between the Company and individual employees, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 may be available for sale into the public markets. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our ordinary shares, or the availability of ordinary shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our ordinary shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. See ‘‘Shareholders’ Agreement and Registration Rights Agreement’’ in Part II, Item 5(f) for further information regarding circumstances under which ordinary shares may be sold. Furthermore, on December 12, 2005, we issued 4,000,000 5.625% Perpetual Income Equity Replacement Security (the ‘‘Perpetual PIERS’’). Each Perpetual PIERS will be convertible, at the option of the holder thereof, into one perpetual preference share and a number of our ordinary shares, if any, based on an initial conversion rate of 1.7077 ordinary shares per $50 liquidation 58 Table of Contents preference of Perpetual PIERS, subject to specified adjustments. In addition, at any time on or after January 1, 2009, under certain circumstances, we may, at our option, cause each Perpetual PIERS to be automatically converted into $50 in cash and ordinary shares, if any. The conversion of some or all of our Perpetual PIERS will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our ordinary shares issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of our Perpetual PIERS may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of our Perpetual PIERS could depress the price of our ordinary shares. There are provisions in our charter documents which may reduce or increase the voting rights of our ordinary shares. In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the ordinary shares of a shareholder are treated as ‘‘controlled shares’’ (as determined under section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ‘‘Code’’)) of any U.S. Person (as defined below) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person (a ‘‘9.5% U.S. Shareholder’’) shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, our Board of Directors may limit a shareho lder’s voting rights (including appointment rights, if any, granted to holders of our Perpetual PIERS or to holders of our 7.401% Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (liquidation preference $25 per share) (the ‘‘Perpetual Preference Shares’’)) where it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder, and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any holder of our shares or its affiliates. ‘‘Controlled shares’’ includes, among other things, all shares of the Company that such U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). As of December 31, 2007, there were 85,626,457 ordinary shares outstanding of which 8,134,514 ordinary shares would constitute 9.5% of the votes conferred by our issued and outstanding shares. For purposes of this discussion, the term ‘‘U.S. Person’’ means: (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation, or entity treated as a corporation, created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. See ‘‘Bye-Laws’’ in Part II, Item 5(g). Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders will be notified of their voting interests prior to any vote to be taken by them. As a result of any reallocation of votes, voting rights of some of our shareholders might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding ordinary shares, thereby possibly resulting in such shareholders becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. In addition, the reallocation of the votes of our shareholders could result in some of the shareholders becoming subject to filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act in the event that the Company no longer qualifies as a foreign private issuer. 59 Table of Contents We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request by us, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate such shareholder’s voting rights. There are provisions in our bye-laws which may restrict the ability to transfer ordinary shares and which may require shareholders to sell their ordinary shares. Our Board of Directors may decline to register a transfer of any ordinary shares if it appears to the Board of Directors, in their sole and reasonable discretion, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any of our shareholders or their affiliates may occur as a result of such transfer. Our bye-laws also provide that if our Board of Directors determines that share ownership by a person may result in material adverse tax consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any shareholder or its affiliates, then we have the option, but not the obligation, to require that shareholder to sell to us or to third parties to whom we assign the repurchase right for fair market value the minimum number of ordinary shares held by such person which is necessary to eliminate the material adverse tax consequences. Laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we conduct business could delay or deter a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider to be desirable and may make it more difficult to replace members of our Board of Directors and have the effect of entrenching management, and your ability to purchase more than 10% of our voting shares will be restricted. Ordinary shares may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003 of Bermuda which regulates the sale of securities in Bermuda. In addition, the BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of shares of a Bermuda exempted company other than in cases where the BMA has granted a general permission. The BMA in its policy dated June 1, 2005 provides that where any equity securities of a Bermuda company are listed on an appointed stock exchange, general permission is given for the issue and subsequent transfer of the securities of the company from and/or to a non-resident, for as long as any equities securities of the company remain so listed. Notwithstanding the above general permission, we have obtained from the BMA their permission for the issue and free transferability of the ordinary shares in the Company, as long as the shares are listed on the NYSE or other appointed stock exchange, to and am ong persons who are non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes and of up to 20% of the ordinary shares to and among persons who are residents in Bermuda for exchange control purposes. The BMA and the Registrar of Companies accept no responsibility for the financial soundness of any proposal or for the correctness of any of the statements made or opinions expressed in this report. Each shareholder or prospective shareholder will be responsible for notifying the BMA in writing of his becoming a controller, directly or indirectly, of 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of Aspen Holdings and ultimately Aspen Bermuda within 45 days of becoming such a controller. The BMA may serve a notice of objection on any controller of Aspen Bermuda if it appears to the BMA that the person is no longer fit and proper to be such a controller. The FSA regulates the acquisition of ‘‘control’’ of any U.K. insurance company authorized under the FSMA. Any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares of a U.K. authorized insurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance company or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired ‘‘control’’ for the purposes of FSMA, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. A purchaser of 10% or more of our ordinary shares would therefore be considered to have acquired ‘‘control’’ of Aspen U.K. Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire ‘‘control’’ o ver a U.K. authorized insurance company must notify the FSA of his intention to do so and obtain the 60 Table of Contents FSA’s prior approval. The FSA would then have three months to consider that person’s application to acquire ‘‘control.’’ In considering whether to approve such application, the FSA must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and proper person to have such ‘‘control’’ and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of ‘‘control.’’ Failure to make the relevant prior application would constitute a criminal offense. Under the North Dakota Insurance Holding Company statutes, if a holder would acquire beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our outstanding voting securities without the prior approval of the North Dakota Insurance Commissioner, then our North Dakota insurance subsidiary or the North Dakota Insurance Commission is entitled to injunctive relief, including enjoining any proposed acquisition, or seizing ordinary shares owned by such person, and such ordinary shares would not be entitled to be voted. There can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory body would agree that a shareholder who owned greater than 10% of our ordinary shares did not, because of the limitation on the voting power of such shares, control the applicable Insurance Subsidiary. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. If these restrictions delay, deter or prevent a change of control, such restrictions may make it more difficult to replace members of our Board of Directors and may have the effect of entrenching management regardless of their performance. We cannot pay a dividend on our ordinary shares unless the full dividends for the most recently ended dividend period on all outstanding Perpetual PIERS, underlying perpetual preference shares and Perpetual Preference Shares have been declared and paid. Our Perpetual PIERS, our perpetual preference shares that are issuable upon conversion of our Perpetual PIERS at the option of the holders thereof and our Perpetual Preference Shares will rank senior to our ordinary shares with respect to the payment of dividends. As a result, unless the full dividends for the most recently ended dividend period on all outstanding Perpetual PIERS, underlying perpetual preference shares and Perpetual Preference Shares have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum (or, if we so elect with respect to our Perpetual PIERS and underlying perpetual preference shares, ordinary shares) sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside), we cannot declare or pay a dividend on our ordinary shares. Under the terms of our Perpetual PIERS and our Perpetual Preference Shares, these restrictions will continue until full dividends on all outstanding Perpetual PIERS, underlying perpetual preference shares and Perpetual Preferen ce Shares for four consecutive dividend periods have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum (or, if we so elect with respect to our Perpetual PIERS and underlying perpetual preference shares, ordinary shares) sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for payment). Our ordinary shares rank junior to our Perpetual PIERS, underlying perpetual preference shares and Perpetual Preference Shares in the event of a liquidation, winding up or dissolution of the Company. In the event of a liquidation, winding up or dissolution of the Company, our ordinary shares rank junior to our Perpetual PIERS, our perpetual preference shares issuable upon conversion of our Perpetual PIERS and our Perpetual Preference Shares. In such an event, there may not be sufficient assets remaining, after payments to holders of our Perpetual PIERS, underlying perpetual preference shares and Perpetual Preference Shares, to ensure payments to holders of ordinary shares. U.S. persons who own our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act which includes, where relevant, information on modifications thereto adopted under our bye-laws, applicable to us, which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law (which is representative of the corporate law of the 61 Table of Contents various states comprising the United States). Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, a transaction entered into by us, in which a director has an interest, will not be voidable by us, and such director will not be accountable to us for any benefit realized under that transaction, provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing, to the directors. In addition, our bye-laws allow a director to be taken into account in determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which that director has an interest following a declaration of the interest under the Companies Act, unless the majority of the disinterested directors determine otherwise. Under Delaware law, the transaction would not be voidable if: • the material facts as to the interested director’s relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors; • the material facts were disclosed or were known to the shareholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction was specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or • the transaction was fair as to the corporation at the time it was authorized, approved or ratified. Business Combinations with Large Shareholders or Affiliates. As a Bermuda company, we may enter into business combinations with our large shareholders or one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries, including asset sales and other transactions in which a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders or other wholly-owned subsidiaries, without obtaining prior approval from our shareholders and without special approval from our Board of Directors. Under Bermuda law, amalgamations require the approval of the Board of Directors, and except in the case of amalgamations with and between wholly-owned subsidiaries, shareholder approval. However, when the affairs of a Bermuda company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to a Bermuda court, which may make an order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or the company. If we were a Delaware company, we would need prior approval from our Board of Directors or a supermajority of our shareholders to enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the time the person became an interested shareholder, unless we opted out of the relevant Delaware statute. Bermuda law or our bye-laws would require Board of Directors’ approval and, in some instances, shareholder approval of such transactions. Shareholders’ Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence a derivative action in our name to remedy a wrong done to us where an act is alleged to be beyond our corporate power, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The wi nning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the Company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud of the director or officer or to recover any gain, personal profit or advantage to which the director or officer is not legally entitled. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not 62 Table of Contents taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. Indemnification of Directors and Officers. Under Bermuda law and our bye-laws, we may indemnify our directors, officers, any other person appointed to a committee of the Board of Directors or resident representative (and their respective heirs, executors or administrators) to the full extent permitted by law against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense, incurred or suffered by such persons by reason of any act done, conceived in or omitted in the conduct of our business or in the discharge of their duties; provided that such indemnification shall not extend to any matter which would render such indemnification void under the Companies Act. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in sett lement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if (i) such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and (ii) with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our ordinary shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. For example, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that could have such an effect: • election of directors is staggered, meaning that members of only one of three classes of directors are elected each year; • directors serve for a term of three years (unless 70 years or older); • our directors may decline to approve or register any transfer of shares to the extent they determine, in their sole discretion, that any non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to Aspen Holdings, any of its subsidiaries, shareholders or affiliates would result from such transfer; • if our directors determine that share ownership by any person may result in material adverse tax consequences to Aspen Holdings, any of its subsidiaries, shareholders or affiliates, we have the option, but not the obligation, to purchase or assign to a third party the right to purchase the minimum number of shares held by such person solely to the extent that it is necessary to eliminate such material risk; • shareholders have limited ability to remove directors; and • if the ordinary shares of any U.S. Person constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by the issued shares of Aspen Holdings, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the United 63 Table of Contents States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We have been advised by Bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in force between the U.S. and Bermuda providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As a result, whether a U.S. judgment would be enforceable in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers depends on whether the U.S. court that entered the judgment is recognized by the Bermuda court as having jurisdiction over us or our directors and officers, as determined by reference to Bermuda conflict of law rules. A judgment debt from a U.S. court that is final and for a sum certain based on U.S. federal securities laws will not be enforceable in Bermuda unless the judgment debtor had submitted to the jurisdiction of the U.S. court, and the issue of submission and jurisdiction is a matter of Bermuda (not U.S.) law. In addition to and irrespective of jurisdictional issues, the Bermuda courts will not enforce a U.S. federal securities law that is either penal or contrary to public policy. It is the advice of our Bermuda counsel that an action brought pursuant to a public or penal law, the purpose of which is the enforcement of a sanction, power or right at the instance of the state in its sovereign capacity, will not be entertained by a Bermuda court. Certain remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including certain remedies under U.S. federal securities laws, would not be available under Bermuda law or enforceable in a Bermuda court, as they would be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A B ermuda court may, however, impose civil liability on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Aspen Holdings and Aspen Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Aspen Holdings, Aspen Bermuda or any of their respective operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Our non-U.S. companies may be subject to U.S. tax and that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment. If Aspen Holdings or any of its foreign subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case its results of operations could be materially adversely affected (although its results of operations should not be materially adversely affected if Aspen U.K. is considered to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business solely as a result of the binding authorities granted to Aspen Re America, ARA-CA, ASIS, Aspen Management and WU Inc.) 64 Table of Contents Aspen Holdings and Aspen Bermuda are Bermuda companies, and Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K., Aspen U.K. Services and AIUK Trustees are U.K. companies. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies will operate in such a manner that none of these companies should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income, and the likely imposition of U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits tax on the profits attributable to the business of Aspen U.K. produced pursuant to the binding authorities granted to Aspen Re America, ARA-CA, ASIS and Aspen Management, as well as the binding authorities previously granted to WU Inc.) because none of these companies should be treated as engaged in a trade or business within the United States (other than Aspen U.K. with respect to the bu siness produced pursuant to the Aspen Re America, ARA-CA, ASIS, Aspen Management and prior WU Inc. binding authorities agreements). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (‘‘IRS’’) will not contend successfully that some or all of Aspen Holdings or its foreign subsidiaries is/are engaged in a trade or business in the United States based on activities in addition to the binding authorities discussed above. Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. None of us, except for Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K., Aspen U.K. Services and AIUK Trustees, is incorporated in the United Kingdom. Accordingly, none of us, other than Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services, should be treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for corporation tax purposes unless our central management and control is exercised in the United Kingdom. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, which is wholly a question of fact. Each of us, other than Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services, intends to manage our affairs so that none of us, other than Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services, is resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes. A company not resident in the United Kingdom for corporation tax purposes can nevertheless be subject to U.K. corporation tax if it carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom but the charge to U.K. corporation tax is limited to profits (including revenue profits and capital gains) attributable directly or indirectly to such permanent establishment. Each of us, other than Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services (which should be treated as resident in the United Kingdom by virtue of being incorporated and managed there) intends that we will operate in such a manner so that none of us (other than Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services), carries on a trade through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, because neither case law nor U.K. statute definitively defines the activities that constitute trading in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs might contend successfully that any of us (other than Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services) are/is trading in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment. The United Kingdom has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. There are circumstances in which companies that are neither resident in the United Kingdom nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the jurisdiction in which they are resident may be exposed to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) on the profits of a trade carried on there even if that trade is not carried on through a permanent establishment but each of us intends that we will operate in such a manner that none of us will fall within the charge to income tax in the United Kingdom (other than by deduction or withholding) in this respect. 65 Table of Contents If any of us, other than Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services, were treated as being resident in the United Kingdom for U.K. corporation tax purposes, or if any of us were to be treated as carrying on a trade in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The arrangements between Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services and each of us are subject to the U.K. transfer pricing regime. Consequently, if any agreement is found not to be on arm’s length terms and as a result a U.K. tax advantage is being obtained, an adjustments will be required to compute U.K. taxable profits as if such an agreement were on arm’s length terms. Any transfer pricing adjustment could adversely impact the Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services’ tax charge. Possible changes to the U.K. system of taxation of foreign profits are currently under active consideration by Her Majesty’s Treasury. Consultation is ongoing to discuss an exemption system for foreign dividends, changes to the U.K. Controlled Foreign Company rules and interest deductibility. Any changes (not expected to take effect before 1 April 2009) may impact Aspen U.K. Holdings, Aspen U.K. and Aspen U.K. Services’ tax charge. Holders of 10% or more of Aspen Holdings’ shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the ‘‘controlled foreign corporation’’ (‘‘CFC’’) rules. If you are a ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholder’’ (defined as a U.S. Person (as defined below) who owns (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or ‘‘constructively’’ (as defined below)) at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of a foreign corporation), that is a CFC for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and you own shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, you must include in your gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes your pro rata share of the CFC’s ‘‘subpart F income,’’ even if the subpart F income is not distributed. ‘‘Subpart F income’’ of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if ‘‘10% U.S. Shareholders’’ own (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code (i.e., ‘‘constructively’’)) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of that foreign corporation, or the total value of all stock of that foreign corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a foreign insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation, if the gross amount of premiums or other consideration for the reinsurance or the issuing of insurance or annuity contracts (other than certain insurance or reinsurance related to some country risks written by certain insurance companies, not applicable here) exceeds 75% of the gross amount of all premiums or other consideration in respect of all risks. For purposes of this discussion, the term ‘‘U.S. Person’’ means: (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or organized under the laws of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. We believe that because of the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power (these provisions are described under ‘‘Bye-laws’’ in part II, Item 5(g) below) and other factors, no U.S. Person who owns shares of Aspen Holdings directly or indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through foreign entities, or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all 66 Table of Contents classes of shares of Aspen Holdings or any of its foreign subsidiaries. It is possible, however, that the IRS could successfully challenge the effectiveness of these provisions. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our ‘‘related party insurance income’’ (‘‘RPII’’). If the RPII (determined on a gross basis) of any of our foreign Insurance Subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that company’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of Aspen Holdings, then a U.S. Person who owns any shares of such foreign Insurance Subsidiary (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of such company’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons at that date regardless of whether such income is distributed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax- exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by a foreign Insurance Subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the indirect or direct insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by the company. We believe that the direct or indirect insureds of each of our foreign Insurance Subsidiaries (and related persons) did not directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our shares in prior years of operation and we do not expect this to be the case in the foreseeable future. Additionally, we do not expect gross RPII of each of our foreign Insurance Subsidiaries to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year for the foreseeable future, but we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the f actors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of such disposition. The section 1248 of the Internal Revenue Service Code of 1986, as amended, in conjunction with the RPII rules provides that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Aspen Holdings will not itself be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to us is uncertain. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company (‘‘PFIC’’) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns any shares of the Company will be subject to adverse tax consequences including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be materially 67 Table of Contents adversely affected. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a ‘‘step-up’’ in the basis of the shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. U.S. tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of the insurance income of either of our foreign Insurance Subsidiaries is allocated to the organization, which generally would be the case if either of our foreign Insurance Subsidiaries is a CFC and the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% Shareholder or there is RPII, certain exceptions do not apply and the tax-exempt organization owns any shares of the Company. Although we do not believe that any U.S. Persons should be allocated such insurance income, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. For example, legislation has been introduced in Congress that would, if enacted, deny the applicability of reduced rates of tax to ‘‘qualified dividend income’’ paid by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country which does not have a comprehensive income tax system, such as Bermuda. It is possible that this legislative proposal could become law before 2011 or that it could apply retroactively. Therefore, depending on whether, when and in what form this legislative proposal is enacted, we cannot assure you that any dividends paid by us in the future would qualify for reduced rates of tax. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the ‘‘subpart F income’’ or the RPII of a CFC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the ‘‘OECD’’), has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004 and September 2006, Bermuda was not listed as a tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. 68 Table of Contents Additional Information Aspen’s website address is www.aspen.bm. Aspen makes available on its website its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 