Risk Factors” for a description of risks inherent in such international operations. Available Company Information TRW Automotive Holdings Corp.’s Internet website is www.trw.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Standards of Conduct (our code of business conduct and ethics) are also available on our website and available in print to any shareholder who requests it. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Loss of market share by the Big Three may adversely affect our results in the future and the viability of our supply base. Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation and Chrysler LLC (the “Big Three”) have been losing market share for vehicle sales in North America and, in certain cases, Europe. At the same time, Asian vehicle 12 Table of Contents manufacturers have increased their share in such markets. Although we do have business with the Asian vehicle manufacturers, our customer base is more heavily weighted toward the Big Three. In addition, declining market share and inherent structural issues with the Big Three have led to announcements of an unprecedented level of production cuts. In order to address market share declines, reduced production levels, negative industry trends and other structural issues specific to their companies (such as significant overcapacity and pension and healthcare costs), the Big Three and certain of our other customers are undergoing various forms of restructuring initiatives (including, in certain cases, reorganization under bankruptcy laws). Substantial restructuring initiatives undertaken by our major customers have had, and will continue to have, a ripple effect throughout our industry. These initiatives have negatively impacted us and our supply base and may continue to do so in the future. Escalating pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. Pricing pressure in the automotive supply industry has been substantial and is likely to continue. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the contract. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Commodity inflationary pressures may adversely affect our profitability and the viability of our Tier 2 and Tier 3 supply base. The cost of most of the commodities we use in our business has increased over the past few years. Ferrous metals, base metals, resins, yarns, energy costs and other petroleum-based products have become more expensive. This has put significant operational and financial burdens on us and our suppliers. It is usually difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases. Furthermore, our suppliers may not be able to handle the commodity cost increases and continue to perform as we expect. The unstable condition of some of our suppliers or their failure to perform has caused us to incur additional costs and has led to certain delivery delays and production issues, which have negatively impacted certain of our businesses in 2007. The continuation or worsening of these industry conditions together with the overall condition of our supply base may lead to further delivery delays, additional costs, production issues or delivery of non-conforming products by our suppliers in the future, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our business would be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. For the year ended December 31, 2007, sales to our three largest customers on a worldwide basis were approximately 41% of our total sales. Although business with each customer is typically split among numerous contracts, if we lost a major customer or that customer significantly reduced its purchases of our products, there could be a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. In our business, we are exposed to product liability and warranty claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall of a product. Vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product liability, warranty and recall claims and we have been subject to continuing efforts by our customers to change contract terms and conditions concerning warranty and recall participation. In addition, vehicle manufacturers have experienced increasing recall campaigns in recent years. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our results of operations. In 2007, over half of our sales originated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. This translation is 13 Table of Contents based on average exchange rates during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings would be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Separately, while we generally produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, our sales are more concentrated in U.S. dollar and in Euro than our expenses, and therefore our profit margins and earnings could be reduced due to fluctuations or adverse trends in foreign currency exchange rates. While we employ financial instruments to hedge certain of these exposures, this does not insulate us completely from currency effects. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or the facilities of our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our operations. Due to normal and ordinary labor negotiations or as a result of some specific labor dispute, a work stoppage may occur in our facilities or those of our customers or other suppliers. The turbulence in the automotive industry and actions taken by our customers and other suppliers to address negative industry trends may have the side effect of exacerbating labor relations problems at those companies which could increase the possibility of such a work stoppage. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, either directly or as a result of a work stoppage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at our facilities or one of our own suppliers could limit or stop our production of the affected products. Such interruptions in our production could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our available cash and access to additional capital may be limited by our substantial debt. We are a non-investment grade company with a significant level of debt. This amount of debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for our business. In addition, we need to devote substantial cash to the payment of interest on our debt, which means that cash may not be used for other of our business needs. We may be more vulnerable to an economic or industry downturn and to rising interest rates than a company with less debt. The cyclicality of automotive production and sales could adversely affect our business. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions, consumer spending and preferences, labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. The volume of automotive production has fluctuated from year to year, which leads to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Any significant economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production and sales by vehicle manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our pension and other postretirement benefits expense and the funding requirements of our pension plans could materially increase. Most of our employees participate in defined benefit pension plans or retirement/termination indemnity plans. The rate at which we are required to fund these plans depends on certain assumptions which depend in part on market conditions. As market conditions change, these assumptions may change, resulting in a decline in pension asset values. Future declines could materially increase the necessary funding status of our plans, and may require us to contribute more to these plans earlier than we anticipated. Also, this could significantly increase our pension expenses and reduce our profitability. We also sponsor other postretirement benefit (“OPEB”) plans for most of our U.S. and some of our non-U.S. employees. We fund our OPEB obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis and have no plan assets. If health care costs in the future increase more than we anticipated, our actuarially determined liability and our related OPEB expense could increase along with future cash outlays. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. We have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. Operations outside of the United States, particularly operations in emerging markets, are subject to various risks which may not be present or as significant for operations within U.S. markets. Economic uncertainty in 14 Table of Contents some geographic regions in which we operate, including certain emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect cash flows from our operations in those areas. Risks inherent in our international operations include exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; the potential for changes in local economic conditions; restrictive governmental actions such as restrictions on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; more expansive legal rights of foreign unions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises; unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against United States’ or other interests. In addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash flow from non-U.S. subsidiaries. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, therefore, on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, which may become impaired in the future. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were approximately $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2007, or 24% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2007, or 18% of our total assets. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income. We are subject to financial statement risk in the event that goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become impaired. Our expected annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change as a result of changes in mix of earnings and other factors. The overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total earnings before tax. However, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Losses in certain jurisdictions provide no current financial statement tax benefit. As a result, changes in the mix of projected earnings between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate. We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company, we are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance with such laws and regulations at all times. Our costs or liabilities relating to them may be more than the amount we have reserved, of which the difference may be material. We have spent money to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims, including certain asbestos-related claims. While our annual costs to defend and settle these claims in the past have not been material, we cannot assure you that this will remain so in the future. 15 Table of Contents Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business. Because Blackstone owns a substantial percentage of our stock, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions will be limited, and conflicts of interest between Blackstone and us or our public shareholders could arise in the future. Currently an affiliate of The Blackstone Group L.P. (“Blackstone”) beneficially owns approximately 46% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Blackstone has a significant voting block with respect to all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our directors and our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction, and its vote may be difficult to overcome on any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no unresolved written comments received from the Commission staff not less than 180 days before our 2007 fiscal year end. However, we have received written comments from the SEC regarding our definitive proxy statement filed March 30, 2007, which we believe we have resolved. 