ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Loss of market share by the Big Three may adversely affect our results in the future. Ford Motor Company, General Motors and the Chrysler group of DaimlerChrysler AG (the “Big Three”) have been losing market share for vehicle sales in North America and, to a lesser extent, Europe. At the same time, Asian vehicle manufacturers have increased their share in such markets. Although we do have business with the Asian vehicle manufacturers, our customer base is more heavily weighted towards the Big Three. In addition, declining market share and inherent structural issues with the Big Three have led to recent announcements of an unprecedented level of production cuts. In order to address market share declines, reduced production levels, negative industry trends and other structural issues specific to their companies (such as significant overcapacity and pension and healthcare costs), the Big Three and certain of our other customers are undergoing various forms of restructuring initiatives (including, in certain cases, reorganization under bankruptcy laws). In the case of Ford, North American restructuring actions were accelerated and expanded during 2006 to remove additional production capacity over the next several years. In the case of the Chrysler group, in February 2007, Chrysler announced restructuring actions to significantly reduce overall North American production capacity. Such substantial restructuring initiatives undertaken by our major customers will have a ripple effect throughout our industry and may have a severe impact on our business and our common suppliers. 11 Table of Contents Escalating pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business. Pricing pressure in the automotive supply industry has been substantial and is likely to continue. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the contract. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Commodity inflationary pressures may adversely affect our profitability and the viability of our Tier 2 and Tier 3 supply base. The cost of some of the commodities we use in our business has increased. Ferrous metals, base metals, resins, yarns, energy costs and other petroleum-based products have become more expensive. This has put significant operational and financial burdens on us and our suppliers. It is usually difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases. Furthermore, our suppliers may not be able to handle the commodity cost increases and still perform as we expect. In fact, we have seen the number of bankruptcies or insolvencies increase due in part to the recent inflationary pressures. The unstable condition of some of our suppliers or their failure to perform has led to certain delivery delays and production issues and has negatively impacted certain of our businesses in 2006. The overall condition of our supply base may possibly lead to further delivery delays, production issues or delivery of non-conforming products by our suppliers in the future. Our business would be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales to our four largest customers on a worldwide basis were approximately 55% of our total sales. Although business with each customer is typically split among numerous contracts, if we lost a major customer or that customer significantly reduced its purchases of our products, there could be a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Work stoppages or other labor issues at the facilities of our customers or other suppliers could adversely affect our operations. The turbulence in the automotive industry and actions taken by our customers and other suppliers to address negative industry trends may have the side effect of exacerbating labor relations problems at those companies. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at another supplier could interrupt production at our customer which would have the same effect. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. In our business, we are exposed to product liability and warranty claims. In addition, we may be required to participate in a recall of a product. Vehicle manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product liability, warranty and recall claims and we have been subject to continuing efforts by our customers to change contract terms and conditions concerning warranty and recall participation. In addition, vehicle manufacturers have experienced increasing recall campaigns in recent years. Product liability, warranty and recall costs may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt costs to increase significantly. A majority of our borrowings, including borrowings under TRW Automotive Inc.’s senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 55% of our total debt was at variable interest rates (or 71% when considering the effect of interest rate swaps). In view of recent 12 Table of Contents rising interest rates, the amount we are required to pay on our variable rate indebtedness has increased and may increase further even though the amount borrowed remained the same. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar could materially impact our results of operations. In 2006, over half of our sales originated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. This translation is based on average exchange rates during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings would be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Our available cash and access to additional capital may be limited by our substantial debt. We have a significant amount of debt. This amount of debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for our business. It may also limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions because of the covenants and restrictions in the debt. In addition, we have to devote substantial cash to the payment of interest and principal on the debt, which means that cash may not be used for other of our business needs. We may be more vulnerable to an economic or industry downturn than a company with less debt. The cyclicality of automotive production and sales could adversely affect our business. Automotive production and sales are highly cyclical and depend on general economic conditions, consumer spending and preferences, labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, trade agreements and other factors. The volume of automotive production has fluctuated from year to year, which leads to fluctuations in the demand for our products. Any significant economic decline that results in a reduction in automotive production and sales by vehicle manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our pension and other post-retirement benefits expense and the funding requirements of our pension plans could materially increase. Most of our employees participate in defined benefit pension plans or retirement/termination indemnity plans. The rate at which we are required to fund these plans depends on certain assumptions which depend in part on market conditions. As market conditions change, these assumptions may change, resulting in a decline in pension asset values. Future declines could materially increase the necessary funding status of our plans, and may require us to contribute more to these plans earlier than we anticipated. Also, this could significantly increase our pension expenses and reduce our profitability. We also sponsor other post-retirement benefit (“OPEB”) plans for most of our U.S. and some of our non-U.S. employees. We fund our OPEB obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis and have no plan assets. If health care costs in the future increase more than we anticipated, our actuarially determined liability and our related OPEB expense could increase along with future cash outlays. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations. We have significant manufacturing operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. International operations involve risks, including exchange controls and currency restrictions, currency fluctuations and devaluations, changes in local economic conditions, changes in laws and regulations and unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against United States’ or other interests. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, which may become impaired in the future. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. Goodwill and other net identifiable intangible assets were approximately $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2006, or 27% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the 13 Table of Contents excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2006, or 20% of our total assets. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income. We are subject to financial statement risk in the event that goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become impaired. Our expected annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change as a result of changes in mix of earnings and other factors. The overall effective tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of our total earnings before tax. However, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Losses in certain jurisdictions provide no current financial statement tax benefit. In addition, certain taxing jurisdictions have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States. As a result, changes in the mix of projected earnings between jurisdictions, among other factors, could have a significant impact on our overall effective tax rate. We may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company, we are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance with such laws and regulations at all times. Our costs or liabilities relating to them may be more than the amount we have reserved, which difference may be material. We have spent money to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims, including certain asbestos-related claims. While our annual costs to defend and settle these claims in the past have not been material, we cannot assure you that this will remain so in the future. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact our business. Because Blackstone controls us, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions will be limited, and conflicts of interest between Blackstone and us or our public shareholders could arise in the future. Currently an affiliate of The Blackstone Group L.P. (“Blackstone”) beneficially owns approximately 57% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Blackstone has the power to control all matters submitted to our stockholders, elect our directors and exercise control over our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction and has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that any such transactions are in their own best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 