ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Merchandising Business A decline in discretionary consumer spending could reduce our revenue. Our revenue depends on discretionary consumer spending, which may decrease due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including: unfavorable general business conditions; increases in interest rates; increases in inflation; wars, fears of war, and terrorist attacks and organizing activities; increases in consumer debt levels and decreases in the availability of consumer credit; adverse or unseasonal weather conditions or events; increases in gasoline prices reducing the willingness to travel to our retail stores; adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations; adverse legislation relating to sales of firearms and ammunition; increases in taxation; adverse fluctuations of foreign currencies; adverse unemployment trends; adverse conditions in the mortgage and housing markets; and other factors that adversely influence consumer confidence and spending. Our customers' purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our revenue would decline. Difficult conditions in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy generally. Volatile oil prices, falling equity and real estate values, the limited availability and high cost of credit, risks of increased inflation and deflation, declining business and consumer confidence, and increased unemployment have created fears of a severe recession. Factors such as consumer spending and the volatility and strength of the capital markets all affect the business and macroeconomic environment and, ultimately, the revenue and profitability of our business. In a recession characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products could be adversely affected. This may materially affect our business and results of operations. 13 Competition in the outdoor recreation and casual apparel and footwear markets could reduce our revenue and profitability. The outdoor recreation and casual apparel and footwear markets are highly fragmented and competitive. We compete directly or indirectly with the following types of companies: other specialty retailers that compete with us across a significant portion of our merchandising categories through retail store or direct businesses, such as Bass Pro Shops, Gander Mountain, Orvis, The Sportsman's Guide, and Sportsman's Warehouse; large-format sporting goods stores and chains, such as The Sports Authority, Dick's Sporting Goods, and Big 5 Sporting Goods; retailers that currently compete with us through retail businesses that may enter the direct business; mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, discount stores, and department stores, such as Wal-Mart and Target; and casual outdoor apparel and footwear retailers, such as L.L. Bean, Lands’ End, and REI. Many of our competitors have a larger number of stores, and some of them have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, distribution, marketing, and other resources than we have. In addition, if our competitors reduce their prices, we may have to reduce our prices in order to compete. Furthermore, some of our competitors have been aggressively building new stores in locations with high concentrations of our Direct business customers. As a result of this competition, we may need to spend more on advertising and promotion. Some of our mass merchandising competitors, such as Wal-Mart, do not currently compete in many of the product lines we offer. If these competitors were to begin offering a broader array of competing products, or if any of the other factors listed above occurred, our revenue could be reduced or our costs could be increased, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements, especially the financial covenants, our unsecured revolving credit facility could be terminated and our unsecured senior notes could become due and payable. Additionally, we are subject to counterparty risk on our unsecured revolving credit facility. Our $430 million unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured senior notes contain certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of minimum debt coverage, a fixed-charge coverage ratio, a cash flow leverage ratio, and a minimum tangible net worth standard. We may not be able to satisfy these ratios, especially if our operating results deteriorate as a result of, but not limited to, adverse current economic conditions, the deepening of the recession, or the impact of other risk factors that may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. A breach of any financial covenant or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured senior notes, and we can provide no assurance that we would be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments from our lenders to remedy a default. In the event of any default that is not waived, the lenders under our unsecured revolving credit facility are not required to lend any additional amounts or issue letters of credit and could require us to apply all of our available cash to collateralize any outstanding letters of credit and declare any outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, the holders of our unsecured senior notes could declare all outstanding amounts, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, recent and unprecedented distress in the worldwide credit markets has had an adverse impact on the availability of credit. Although our $430 million unsecured revolving credit facility does not expire until June 2012, continued market deterioration could jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the banks participating in our facility, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are not able to replace such credit facility or find other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms. 14 We may not be able to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing if needed. The recent downturn in the equity and debt markets, the tightening of the credit markets, and the worldwide recession could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing. We cannot be certain that additional funds will be available if needed and to the extent required or, if available, on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise necessary additional funds on acceptable terms, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We also may not be able to fund expansion, take advantage of future opportunities, meet our existing debt obligations, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our comparable store sales results could affect the price of our common stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: competition; new store openings; general regional and national economic conditions; actions taken by our competitors; consumer trends and preferences; new product introductions and changes in our product mix; timing and effectiveness of promotional events; and weather conditions. We cannot assure you that our comparable store sales will not continue to decrease. Our comparable store sales may vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. If we fail to maintain the strength and value of our brand, our revenue is likely to decline. Our success depends on the value and strength of the Cabela’s brand. The Cabela’s name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting, and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide high quality merchandise and a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could result in decreases in revenue. 15 If we cannot successfully implement our retail store expansion strategy, our growth and profitability would be adversely impacted. We continue to seek additional locations to open new retail stores. Our ability to open new retail stores in a timely manner and operate them profitably depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: our ability to manage the financial and operational aspects of our retail growth strategy; our ability to identify suitable locations, including our ability to gather and assess demographic and marketing data to determine consumer demand for our products in the locations we select; our ability to negotiate and obtain economic development packages with local and state governments where our new retail stores would be located; our ability to negotiate favorable lease agreements; our ability to properly assess the implications of economic development packages and customer density to project the profitability of potential new retail store locations; the availability of financing on favorable terms; our ability to secure required governmental permits and approvals; our ability to hire and train skilled store operating personnel, especially management personnel; the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction delays or cost overruns; our ability to provide a satisfactory mix of merchandise that is responsive to the needs of our customers living in the areas where new retail stores are built; our ability to supply new retail stores with inventory in a timely manner; our ability to properly assess operational and regulatory challenges involved in opening and successfully operating retail stores in Canada; our competitors building or leasing stores near our retail stores or in locations we have identified as targets for a new retail store; and general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending and the overall strength of our business. We may not be able to sustain the growth in the number of our retail stores, the revenue growth historically achieved by our retail stores, or to maintain consistent levels of profitability in our Retail business, particularly as we expand into markets now served by other large-format sporting goods retailers and mass merchandisers. In particular, new retail stores typically generate lower operating margins because pre-opening costs are fully expensed in the year of opening and because fixed costs, as a percentage of revenue, are higher. In addition, the substantial management time and resources which our retail store expansion strategy requires may result in disruption to our existing business operations which may harm our profitability. The slower pace of our retail store expansion may negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. The opening of new retail stores has contributed significantly to the recent growth of our merchandising revenue. As part of our efforts to improve retail operations, and in light of the challenging macroeconomic environment facing retailers, we made the strategic decision to slow the pace of our retail store expansion. We opened eight new retail stores in 2007, two new retail stores in 2008, and currently plan to open one new retail store in 2009. The slower pace of our retail store expansion may negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. 16 Retail store expansion could adversely affect the operating results of our Retail business and reduce the revenue of our Direct business. As the number of our retail stores increases, our stores will become more highly concentrated in the geographic regions we serve. As a result, the number of customers and related revenue at individual stores may decline and the average amount of sales per square foot at our stores may be reduced. In addition, as we open more retail stores and as our competitors open stores with similar formats, our retail store format may become less unique and may be less attractive to customers as tourist and entertainment shopping locations. If either of these events occurs, the operating results of our Retail business could be adversely affected. The growth in the number of our retail stores may also draw customers away from our Direct business. If we are unable to properly manage the relationship between our Direct business and our Retail business, the revenue of our Direct business could be adversely affected. Our failure to successfully manage our Direct business could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. During 2008, our Direct business accounted for 46.0% of the total revenue in our Retail and Direct businesses. Our Direct business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: our inability to properly adjust the fixed costs of a catalog mailing to reflect subsequent sales of the products marketed in the catalog; lower and less predictable response rates for catalogs sent to prospective customers; increases in U.S. Postal Service rates, paper costs, and printing costs resulting in higher catalog production costs and lower profits for our Direct business; failures to properly design, print, and mail our catalogs in a timely manner; failures to introduce new catalog titles; failures to timely fill customer orders; changes in consumer preferences, willingness to purchase goods through catalogs or the Internet, weak economic conditions and economic uncertainty, and unseasonal weather in key geographic markets; increases in software filters that may inhibit our ability to market our products through e-mail messages to our customers and increases in consumer privacy concerns relating to the Internet; changes in applicable federal and state regulation; breaches of Internet security; and failures in our Internet infrastructure or the failure of systems of third parties, such as telephone or electric power service, resulting in website downtime, customer care center closures, or other problems. Any one or more of these factors could result in lower-than-expected revenue for our Direct business. These factors could also result in increased costs, increased merchandise returns, slower turning inventories, inventory write-downs, and working capital constraints. Because our Direct business accounts for a significant portion of our total revenue, any performance shortcomings experienced by our Direct business would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. 17 Any disruption of the supply of products and services from our vendors could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Our vendors and service providers include the following: vendors to supply our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices in a timely manner; outside printers and catalog production vendors to print and mail our catalogs and to convert our catalogs to digital format for website posting; shipping companies, such as United Parcel Service, the U.S. Postal Service, and common carriers, for timely delivery of our catalogs, shipment of merchandise to our customers, and delivery of merchandise from our vendors to us and from our distribution centers to our retail stores; telephone companies to provide telephone service to our in-house customer care centers; communications providers to provide our Internet users with access to our website and a website hosting service provider to host and manage our website; software providers to provide software and related services to run our operating systems for our Retail and Direct businesses; and third-party card processors, such as First Data Resources, that process Cabela’s CLUB Visa transactions. Any disruption in these services could have a negative impact on our ability to market and sell our products, and serve our customers. Our ten largest trade vendors collectively represented approximately 13% of our total merchandise purchases in 2008. If we are unable to acquire suitable merchandise or lose one or more key vendors, we may not be able to offer products that are important to our merchandise assortment. We also are subject to risks, such as the unavailability of raw materials, labor disputes, union organizing activity, strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters, war and terrorism, and adverse general economic and political conditions that might limit our vendors' ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis. We have no contractual arrangements providing for continued supply from our key vendors and our vendors may discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently purchase. Any delay or failure in offering products to our customers could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. In addition, if the cost of fuel rises, the cost to deliver merchandise to the customers of our Direct business and from our distribution centers to our retail stores may rise which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Political and economic uncertainty and unrest in foreign countries where our merchandise vendors are located and trade restrictions upon imports from these foreign countries could adversely affect our ability to source merchandise and operating results. In 2008, approximately 15% of our merchandise was imported directly from vendors located in foreign countries, with approximately 88% of our imported merchandise being obtained directly from vendors located in China, Hong Kong, South Korea, and Taiwan. In addition, we believe that a significant portion of our other vendors obtain their products from foreign countries that may also be subject to political and economic uncertainty. We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries where our vendors are located, such as: increased import duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, and quotas; work stoppages; economic uncertainties (including inflation); adverse foreign government regulations; wars, fears of war, and terrorist attacks and organizing activities; adverse fluctuations of foreign currencies; and political unrest. We cannot predict when, or the extent to which, the countries in which our products are manufactured will experience any of the above events. Any event causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign locations would likely increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and would adversely affect our operating results, particularly if imports of our Cabela’s branded merchandise were adversely affected as our margins are higher on our Cabela’s branded merchandise. 18 In addition, trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as United States or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us or may require us to modify our current business practices, any of which could hurt our profitability. Due to the seasonality of our business, our annual operating results would be adversely affected if our revenue during the fourth quarter was substantially below expectations. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. Historically, we have realized a significant portion of our revenue and earnings for the year in the fourth quarter. In 2008, we generated 34.5% of our revenue, and 64.7% of our net income, in the fourth quarter. We incur significant additional expenses in the fourth quarter due to higher customer purchase volumes and increased staffing. If we miscalculate the demand for our products generally or for our product mix during the fourth quarter, our revenue could decline, which would harm our financial performance. In addition, abnormally warm weather conditions during the fourth quarter can reduce sales of many of the products normally sold during this time period and inclement weather can reduce store traffic or cause us to temporarily close stores causing a reduction in revenue. Because a substantial portion of our operating income is derived from our fourth quarter revenue, a shortfall in expected fourth quarter revenue would cause our annual operating results to suffer significantly. If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior executive management and merchandising teams. With the exception of our Chairman, Richard N. Cabela, and our Vice Chairman, James W. Cabela, none of our senior management or directors has employment agreements other than our Management Change of Control Severance Agreements. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any of our executives or key management personnel. In addition, our corporate headquarters is located in a sparsely populated rural area which may make it difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or the inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for our key management positions could cause our operating results to suffer. Our business depends on our ability to meet our labor needs, and if we are unable to do so, our retail store expansion strategy may be delayed and our revenue growth may suffer. Our success depends on hiring, training, managing, and retaining quality managers, sales associates, and employees in our retail stores and customer care centers. Our corporate headquarters, distribution centers, return center, and some of our retail stores are located in sparsely populated rural areas. It may be difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, especially management and technical personnel, in these areas. Competition for qualified management and technical employees could require us to pay higher wages or grant above market levels of stock compensation to attract a sufficient number of employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed, the implementation of our retail store expansion strategy may be delayed and our revenue growth may suffer. 19 Our historic sales tax collection policy for our Direct business may subject us to liabilities for unpaid sales taxes on past Direct business sales. Many states have attempted to require that out-of-state direct marketers, whose only contacts with the state are solicitations and delivery to their residents of products purchased through the mail or the Internet, collect sales taxes on the sale of these products. In addition, a private litigant, purportedly on behalf of various states, has initiated litigation against several out-of-state direct marketers alleging that the failure to collect and remit sales tax violates various state false claims laws. The U.S. Supreme Court has held that states, absent congressional legislation, may not impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct marketers unless the out-of-state direct marketer has nexus with the state. Nexus generally is created by the physical presence of the direct marketer, its agents, or its property within the state. Our sales tax collection policy for our Direct business is to collect and remit sales tax in states where our Direct business has established nexus. Prior to the opening of a retail store, we historically sought a private letter ruling from the state in which the store would be located as to whether our Direct business would have nexus with that state as a result of the store opening. Some states have enacted legislation that requires sales tax collection by direct marketers with no physical presence in that state. In some instances, the legislation assumes nexus exists because of the physical presence of an affiliated entity engaged in the same line of business. During the first quarter of 2008, we received an assessment for unpaid sales taxes on prior Direct business sales from a state with such legislation. It is also possible that we may receive future assessments from other states for unpaid sales taxes on prior Direct business sales. We presently intend to vigorously contest the assessment and any future sales tax assessments, but we may not prevail. If we do not prevail with respect to any assessment, we could be held liable for sales taxes on prior Direct business sales, which could be substantial. We must successfully order and manage our inventory to reflect customer demand and anticipate changing consumer preferences and buying trends or our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to successfully manage our inventory and to anticipate and respond to merchandise trends and customer demands in a timely manner. We cannot predict consumer preferences with certainty and they may change over time. We usually must order merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. The extended lead times for many of our purchases may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or changes in prices. If we misjudge either the market for our merchandise or our customers' purchasing habits, our revenue may decline significantly and we may not have sufficient quantities of merchandise to satisfy customer demand or we may be required to mark down excess inventory, either of which would result in lower profit margins. In addition, as we implement our retail store expansion strategy, we will need to construct additional distribution centers or expand the size of our existing distribution centers to support our growing number of retail stores. If we are unable to find suitable locations for new distribution centers or to timely integrate new or expanded distribution centers into our inventory control process, we may not be able to deliver inventory to our retail stores in a timely manner, which could have an adverse effect on the revenue and cash flows of our Retail business. A natural disaster or other disruption at our distribution centers or return facility could cause us to lose merchandise and be unable to effectively deliver to our direct customers and retail stores. We currently rely on distribution centers in Sidney, Nebraska; Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin; and Wheeling, West Virginia, to handle our distribution needs. We operate a return center in Oshkosh, Nebraska; and our Wheeling, West Virginia, distribution center also processes returns. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to these centers due to fire, tornado, or any other calamity could damage a significant portion of our inventory and materially impair our ability to adequately stock our retail stores, deliver merchandise to customers, and process returns to vendors and could result in lost revenue, increased costs, and reduced profits. 20 Our failure to obtain or negotiate economic development packages with local and state governments could cause us to significantly alter our retail store strategy or format and/or delay the construction of one or more of our retail stores and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, and profitability. We have received economic development packages from many of the local and state governments where our retail stores are located. In some locations, we have experienced an increased amount of government and citizen resistance and critical review of pending and existing economic development packages. This resistance and critical review may cause local and state government officials in future locations to deny or limit economic development packages that might otherwise be available to us. The failure to obtain similar economic development packages in the future for any of these reasons could cause us to significantly alter our retail store strategy or format. As a result, we could be forced to invest less capital in our stores which could have an adverse effect on our ability to construct the stores as attractive tourist and entertainment shopping destinations, possibly leading to a decrease in revenue or revenue growth. In addition, the failure to obtain similar economic development packages for stores built in the future would have an adverse impact on our cash flows and on the return on investment in these stores. The failure of properties to generate sufficient taxes to amortize economic development bonds owned by us that relate to the development of such properties would have an adverse impact on our cash flows and profitability. We often purchase economic development bonds issued by state or local governmental entities in connection with the development of our retail stores. The proceeds of these bonds are then used to fund the construction and equipping of new retail stores and related infrastructure development. The repayments of principal and interest on these bonds are typically tied to sales, property, or lodging taxes generated from the related retail store and, in some cases, from other businesses in the surrounding area, over periods which range between 20 and 30 years. However, the governmental entity from which we purchase the bonds is not otherwise liable for repayment of principal and interest on the bonds to the extent that the associated taxes are insufficient to pay the bonds. At the time we purchase these bonds, we make estimates of the discounted future cash flow streams they are expected to generate in the form of interest and principal payments. Because these cash flows are based primarily on future property or sales tax collections at our retail stores and other facilities (which in many cases may not be operating at the time we make our estimates), these estimates are inherently subjective and the probability of ultimate realization is highly uncertain. If sufficient tax revenue is not generated by the subject properties, we will not receive the full amount of the expected payments due under the bonds, which would have an adverse impact on our cash flows and profitability. Our failure to comply with the terms of current economic development agreements could result in our repayment of grant money or other adverse consequences that would affect our cash flows and profitability. The economic development packages which we have received in connection with the construction of our current stores have, in some instances, contained forfeiture provisions and other remedies in the event we do not fully comply with the terms of the economic development agreements. Among the terms which could trigger these remedies are the failure to maintain certain employment and wage levels, failure to timely open and operate a retail store, and failure to develop property adjacent to a retail store. At the end of 2008, the total amount of grant funding subject to repayment pursuant to a specific contractual remedy was approximately $11 million. Other remedies that have been included in some economic development agreements are loss of priority to tax payments supporting the repayment of bonds held by us. Where specific remedies are not set forth, the local governments would be entitled to pursue general contract remedies. A default by us under these economic development agreements could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and profitability. 21 We may incur costs from litigation or increased regulation relating to products that we sell, particularly tree stands and firearms, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We may incur damages due to lawsuits relating to products we sell. We are currently a defendant in certain product liability lawsuits, including lawsuits relating to tree stands. We may incur losses due to lawsuits, including potential class actions, relating to our performance of background checks on firearms purchases and compliance with other sales laws as mandated by state and federal law. We may also incur losses from lawsuits relating to the improper use of firearms or ammunition sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from manufacturers and retailers of firearms and ammunition. Our insurance coverage and the insurance provided by our vendors for certain products they sell to us may be inadequate to cover claims and liabilities related to products that we sell. In addition, claims or lawsuits related to products that we sell or the unavailability of insurance for product liability claims, could result in the elimination of these products from our product line reducing revenue. If one or more successful claims against us are not covered by or exceed our insurance coverage, or if insurance coverage is no longer available, our available working capital may be impaired and our operating results could be adversely affected. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and could have a negative impact on our profitability and on future premiums we would be required to pay on our insurance policies. Current and future government regulation may negatively impact demand for our products and our ability to conduct our business. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations can affect our business and the demand for products. These laws and regulations include: FTC regulations governing the manner in which orders may be solicited and prescribing other obligations in fulfilling orders and consummating sales; laws and regulations that prohibit or limit the sale, in certain states and localities, of certain items we offer such as firearms, black powder firearms, ammunition, bows, knives, and similar products; the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives governing the manner in which we sell firearms and ammunition; laws and regulations governing hunting and fishing; laws and regulations relating to the collecting and sharing of non-public customer information; and United States customs laws and regulations pertaining to proper item classification, quotas, payment of duties and tariffs, and maintenance of documentation and internal control programs which relate to importing taxidermy which we display in our retail stores. Changes in these laws and regulations or additional regulation could cause the demand for and sales of our products to decrease. Moreover, complying with increased or changed regulations could cause our operating expenses to increase. This could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names, and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. Effective trademark and other intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products are made available. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 22 Risks Related to Our Financial Services Business We may experience limited availability of financing or variation in funding costs for our Financial Services business, which could limit growth of the business and decrease our profitability. Our Financial Services business requires a significant amount of cash to operate. These cash requirements will increase if our credit card originations increase or if our cardholders' balances or spending increase. Historically, we have relied upon external financing sources to fund these operations, and we intend to continue to access external sources to fund our growth. A number of factors such as our financial results, changes within our organization, disruptions in the capital markets, increased competition in the deposit markets, our corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions, possible negative credit ratings affecting our asset-backed securities, and accounting and regulatory changes and relations could make such financing more difficult or impossible to obtain or more expensive. We have been particularly reliant on funding from securitization transactions for our Financial Services business. Securitization funding sources include both commercial paper conduit facilities and fixed and floating rate term securitizations. A failure to renew these facilities, to resecuritize the term securitizations as they mature, or to add additional term securitizations and commercial paper conduits on favorable terms as it becomes necessary could increase our financing costs and potentially limit our ability to grow our Financial Services business. Furthermore, even if we are able to securitize our credit card loans consistent with past practice, poor performance of our securitized loans, including increased delinquencies and credit losses, lower payment rates, or a decrease in excess spreads below certain thresholds, could result in a downgrade or withdrawal of the ratings on the outstanding securities issued in our securitization transactions, cause earlier than expected repayment of these securities, or result in higher required credit enhancement levels. This could jeopardize our ability to complete other securitization transactions on acceptable terms, decrease our liquidity, and force us to rely on other potentially more expensive funding sources, to the extent available, which would decrease our profitability. If an earlier than expected repayment of the notes occurs, we may sustain significant losses on our retained interests and our Financial Services business may need to seek alternative sources of funding. In addition, we may be required to retain all new receivables on our balance sheet which would require higher allowances for loan losses, increase regulatory capital requirements, and negatively impact earnings. We may have to reallocate capital from our Retail and Direct businesses to meet the capital needs of our Financial Services business, which could alter our retail store expansion program. Our bank subsidiary must satisfy the capital maintenance requirements of government regulators and its agreement with Visa U.S.A., Inc. (“Visa”). A variety of factors could cause the capital requirements of our bank subsidiary to exceed our ability to generate capital internally or from third party sources. For example, government regulators or Visa could unilaterally increase their minimum capital requirements. Also, we have significant potential obligations in the form of the unused credit lines of our cardholders. At the end of 2008, these unfunded amounts totaled approximately $13 billion. Draws on these lines of credit could materially exceed predicted line usage. In addition, the occurrence of certain events, such as significant defaults in payment of securitized loans or failure to comply with the terms of securitization covenants, may cause previously completed securitization transactions to amortize earlier than scheduled or be reclassified as a liability for financial accounting purposes, both of which would have a significant effect on our ability to meet the capital maintenance requirements of our bank subsidiary, as affected off-balance sheet loans would immediately be recorded on our consolidated balance sheet and would be subject to regulatory capital requirements. If any of these factors occur, we may have to contribute capital to our bank subsidiary, which may require us to raise additional debt or equity capital and/or divert capital from our Retail and Direct businesses, which in turn could significantly alter our retail store expansion strategy. In addition, our existing credit agreement limits the amount of capital we can contribute to our bank subsidiary to $25 million in any fiscal year or $75 million in the aggregate. In December 2008, we made a $25 million capital contribution to our bank subsidiary through a convertible participating preferred stock investment. 23 The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets as well as downgrades of the ratings on the outstanding notes issued by our Financial Services business' securitization trust may negatively impact our ability to access financing. While we intend to finance our growth initiatives and operations with existing cash, cash flow from operations, and borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility, we may require additional financing to support our growth initiatives and operations. However, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, our access to capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Further, the ability of our Financial Services business to engage in securitization transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, which could materially affect our business and cause our Financial Services business to lose an important source of capital. In addition, on February 19, 2009, Moody's Investors Service announced that it had downgraded the ratings on 21 classes of asset-backed notes issued by the trust of our Financial Services business. Downgrades could negatively impact the ability of our Financial Services business to complete other securitization transactions on acceptable terms or at all and force our Financial Services business to rely on other potentially more expensive funding sources, to the extent available, which would decrease our profitability. We do not believe that this downgrade will have a significant impact on the ability of our Financial Services business to complete other securitization transactions on acceptable terms or to access financing. With the current disruptions and weakness in the credit markets, our Financial Services business, like many other financial institutions, has increased its funding from certificates of deposits. Our current funding strategy includes a continued reliance on certificates of deposit to fund growth and maturing securitizations. With the increase in other financial institutions relying on the deposits market for liquidity and funding, competition in the deposits market may increase resulting in less funds available or funds at unattractive rates. In addition to the non-brokered certificates of deposit market to fund growth and maturing securitizations, we have access to the brokered certificates of deposit market through multiple financial institutions for liquidity and funding purposes. Our ability to issue certificates of deposit is reliant on our current regulatory capital levels. If our bank subsidiary were to be classified as an “adequately capitalized” bank, we would be required to obtain a waiver from the FDIC in order to continue to issue certificates of deposits. Proposed amendments to accounting standards could require us to consolidate previous and future securitization transactions, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and cause us to reallocate capital from our Retail and Direct businesses to meet the capital needs of our Financial Services business. On September 15, 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued two exposure drafts proposing amendments to Financial Accounting Standards (“FAS”) 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and FASB Interpretation No. 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities. Currently, the transfers of our bank subsidiary’s credit card receivables in securitization transactions qualify for sale accounting treatment. The trusts used in our bank subsidiary’s securitizations are not consolidated with us for financial reporting purposes because the trusts are qualifying special purpose entities (“QSPE”). Because the transfers qualify as sales and the trusts are not subject to consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the trusts are not reported on our consolidated balance sheet under generally accepted accounting principles. The proposed amendments would eliminate the concept of a QSPE, modify the consolidation model for variable interest entities, and require continual reassessment of consolidation conclusions. As proposed, these amendments would be effective for us at the beginning of our 2010 fiscal year. The proposed amendments, if adopted, could require us to consolidate the assets and liabilities of our bank subsidiary’s securitization trusts. This could cause us to breach certain financial covenants in our credit agreements and unsecured notes. This could have a significant effect on our financial condition and ability to meet the capital maintenance requirements of our bank subsidiary, as affected off-balance sheet loans would be recorded on our consolidated balance sheet and may be subject to regulatory capital requirements. 24 It may be difficult to sustain the historical growth and profitability of our Financial Services business, and we will be subject to various risks as we attempt to grow the business. We may not be able to retain existing cardholders, grow account balances, or attract new cardholders and the profits from our Financial Services business could decline, for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: credit risk related to the loans we make to cardholders and the charge-off levels of our credit card accounts; inability of cardholders to make payments to us due to current economic conditions and limited access to other credit sources; inability to manage credit risk and keep credit models up to date with current consumer credit trends; lack of growth of potential new customers generated by our Retail and Direct businesses; liquidity and funding risk relating to our ability to create the liquidity necessary to extend credit to our cardholders and provide the capital necessary to meet the requirements of government regulators and Visa; and operational risk related to our ability to acquire the necessary operational and organizational infrastructure, manage expenses as we expand, and recruit management and operations personnel with the experience to run an increasingly complex and highly-regulated business. Economic downturns and social and other factors could cause our credit card charge-offs and delinquencies to increase, or credit card balances to decrease, which would decrease our profitability. Economic downturns lead to higher unemployment rates and generally lead to increased charge-offs and credit losses in the consumer finance industry, which could cause us to experience increased charge-offs and delinquencies in our credit card loan portfolio. An economic downturn can hurt our financial performance as cardholders default on their balances or carry lower balances. A variety of social and other factors also may cause changes in credit card use, payment patterns, and the rate of defaults by cardholders. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the public's perception of the use of credit cards, changing attitudes about incurring debt, and the stigma of personal bankruptcy. Additionally, credit card accounts tend to exhibit a rising trend in credit loss and delinquency rates between 18 to 30 months after they are issued. If the rate of growth in new account generation slows, the proportion of accounts in the portfolio that have been open for between 18 to 30 months will increase and the percentage of charge-offs and delinquencies may increase. Our underwriting criteria and product design may be insufficient to protect the growth and profitability of our Financial Services business during a sustained period of economic downturn or recession or a material shift in social attitudes, and may be insufficient to protect against these additional negative factors. The performance of our Financial Services business may be negatively affected by the performance of our merchandising businesses. Negative developments in our Retail and Direct businesses could affect our ability to grow or maintain our Financial Services business. We believe our ability to maintain cardholders and attract new cardholders is highly correlated with customer loyalty to our merchandising businesses and to the strength of the Cabela's brand. In addition, transactions on cardholder accounts produce loyalty points which the cardholder may apply to future purchases from us. Adverse changes in the desirability of products we sell, negative trends in retail customer service and satisfaction, or the termination or modification of the loyalty program could have a negative impact on our bank subsidiary’s ability to grow its account base and to attract desirable co-branding opportunities with third parties. Our Financial Services business faces the risk of a complex and changing regulatory and legal environment. Our Financial Services business operates in a heavily regulated industry and is therefore subject to a wide array of banking and consumer lending laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in financial, structural, and operational penalties being imposed. In addition, as a Visa member bank, our bank must comply with rules and regulations imposed by Visa. For example, our bank and Cabela’s could be fined by Visa for failing to comply with Visa’s data security standards. 25 Effective July 1, 2010, the Federal Reserve Board’s “amendments to Regulation AA (Unfair or Deceptive Acts or Practices) and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) will place new limitations on credit card issuers. This includes new rules regarding increasing interest rates, allocations of payments, reasonable time to make payments, and changes to default pricing. In addition, these amendments will increase disclosures to consumers as well as increase notice periods for changes in terms and interest rates. The amendments will restrict our ability to manage credit risk and interest rate risk which may negatively affect earnings. We are evaluating these amendments and looking for ways to mitigate their potential impact and reduce any material adverse effects to earnings. Changes in interest rates could have a negative impact on our earnings. In connection with our Financial Services business, we borrow money from institutions and accept funds by issuing brokered and non-brokered certificates of deposit, which we then lend to cardholders. We earn interest on the cardholders' account balances, and pay interest on the certificates of deposit and borrowings we use to fund those loans. Changes in these two interest rates affect the value of the assets and liabilities of our Financial Services business. If the rate of interest we pay on borrowings increases more (or more rapidly) than the rate of interest we earn on loans, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could fall. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our credit card account balances fall more quickly than those on our borrowings. In addition, at the end of 2008, approximately 30.7% of our cardholders did not maintain balances on their credit card accounts. We do not earn any interest from these accounts but do earn other fees from these accounts such as Visa interchange fees. In the event interest rates rise, the spread between the interest rate we pay on our borrowings and the fees we earn from these accounts may change and our profitability may be adversely affected. Credit card industry litigation could adversely impact the amount of revenue generated by our Financial Services business. Our Financial Services business faces possible risk from the outcomes of certain credit card industry litigation. For example, a number of entities, each purporting to represent a class of retail merchants, have sued Visa and several member banks, and other credit card associations, alleging, among other things, that Visa and its member banks have violated U.S. antitrust laws by conspiring to fix the level of interchange fees. To date, we have not been named as a defendant in any credit card industry lawsuits. If the interchange fees that are charged to merchants are reduced as a result of the interchange lawsuits or if the credit card industry is adversely affected by other credit card industry litigation, the financial condition and results of operations of our Financial Services business may be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in the value of our interests in our securitizations relating to our Financial Services business may adversely affect our earnings. In connection with our securitizations relating to our Financial Services business, we retain certain interests in the assets included in the securitization. These interests are carried on our consolidated financial statements and include our "transferor’s interest" in the securitized loans; an "interest-only strip," which represents our right to receive excess cash available after repayment of all amounts due to the investors; servicing rights; and in some cases cash reserve accounts and asset-backed securities, which may be subordinate to the investors’ notes. The value of these retained interests depends upon income earned on these interests which is affected by many factors not within our control, including the performance of the securitized loans, interest paid to the holders of securitization securities, credit losses, and transaction expenses. The value of our interests in the securitizations will vary over time as the amount of loans in the securitized pool and the performance of those loans fluctuate. The performance of the loans included in our securitizations is subject to the same risks and uncertainties that affect the loans that we have not securitized, including, among others, increased delinquencies and credit losses, economic downturns and social factors, interest rate fluctuations, changes in government policies and regulations, competition, expenses, dependence upon third-party vendors, fluctuations in accounts and account balances, and industry risks. The earnings of our Financial Services business may also be negatively impacted if certain securitizations were reduced or not renewed. 26 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 