ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when considering an investment decision with respect to our securities. All material risks currently known to management are described below. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flow, and the impact could be compounded if multiple risks were to occur. Developments related to antitrust investigations by government regulators could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern our business both in the United States and internationally, including those relating to competition (antitrust). Violations of competition (antitrust) laws can result in significant penalties being imposed by antitrust authorities, as is evidenced by the significant fines the European Commission has imposed, in some cases, for violations at companies in certain sectors. Legal and other related costs can also be significant in such cases. Antitrust authorities are investigating possible violations of competition (antitrust) laws by automotive parts suppliers (referred to herein as the “Antitrust Investigations”). In connection with those investigations, in June 2011, European antitrust authorities visited certain of our Occupant Safety Systems business unit locations in Germany to gather information. We also received a subpoena related to the Antitrust Investigations in the United States from the U.S. Department of Justice. We are cooperating fully with the relevant authorities in their ongoing investigations. At this point, we cannot estimate the ultimate financial impact of any antitrust investigation on us, but developments related to such investigations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. 13 Table of Contents General economic conditions causing a material contraction in automotive sales and production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations as well as on the viability of our supply base. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend, among other things, on general economic conditions and consumer spending and preferences. Although the global economy has shown signs of improvement, it remains fragile. While production levels in the automotive industry have generally stabilized and increased since the economic downturn in 2008-2009, production is still at historically low levels, particularly in the United States and Western Europe. Further, consumer spending and preferences can be affected by a number of issues, including employment levels, the pace of wage growth, fuel costs, the availability of consumer financing and concerns about the economy such as concerns about the sovereign debt of certain European countries. As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. There is no assurance that our recent efforts to restructure our business in response to the decline in production volumes in 2008 and 2009 will be sustainable over the long term or will be sufficient if there is further decline. Production levels in Europe and North America most notably affect us given our concentration of sales in those regions, which accounted for 49% and 32%, respectively, of our 2011 sales. As was evident in the 2008-2009 economic downturn, disruptions in the financial markets can result in reduced liquidity and increased borrowing costs which could adversely impact us. Such occurrences in the consumer market could reduce consumer spending for automobiles, which would negatively impact production volumes. Further, reduced liquidity could adversely impact the availability and cost of incremental credit for many companies. The sovereign debt crisis in certain European countries could further negatively impact access to, and the cost of, capital in those areas. As our customers and suppliers respond to rapidly changing consumer preferences and attempt to increase production volumes as the industry recovery progresses, they may require access to additional capital. If required capital is not obtained or its cost is prohibitively high, any production volume increase could be constrained, or worse, their business could be negatively impacted, possibly resulting in further restructuring. Any such negative impact, in turn, could negatively affect our business, either through lower sales to any of our customers so affected or through inability to meet our commitments (or inability to meet them without excess expense) because of our suppliers’ inability to perform. A material contraction in automotive sales and production would likewise pressure our customers, many of which were forced to implement unprecedented restructuring actions, including in some cases reorganization under bankruptcy laws, in response to the 2008-2009 downturn. Such a contraction would strain their ability to operate profitably, and possibly result in even more significant restructuring actions. Since many of our suppliers also supply product directly to our customers, they may encounter liquidity issues if our customers are forced to take further downsizing actions. If a supplier’s viability was challenged, it could impact the supplier’s ability to perform as we expect and consequently our ability to meet our own commitments. As a result of the above factors, further material contraction in automotive sales and production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. If our current expansion efforts are not successfully implemented, they may adversely impact our business and results of operations We are currently in an expansion phase, in order to support our future business based upon new business awards. This expansion, which is our most significant since we became a public company, involves increased capital expenditures and includes the building or expansion of eleven plants. Achievement of the benefits of the expansion is dependant in part on our ability to successfully manage the demands such expansion places on our management resources and engineering and quality teams with respect to not only the building or modification of the physical plants, but also the simultaneous launch of a sizable number of new programs. Our ability to manage the various expansion projects simultaneously may be challenged by factors beyond our control, such as the ability to hire a sufficient number of qualified personnel in the locations required at a cost that does not significantly exceed the cost anticipated when we quoted the business. Further, due to the long lead time required to prepare to support production under awarded future business from automobile manufacturers, we must commit substantial resources and incur significant costs before we receive the benefit of the revenue from that business, which will impact our profitability. If the production levels for the new business fall short of the levels anticipated or the 14 Table of Contents timing of that production changes, due to lack of commercial success of one or more particular vehicle models or otherwise, we may not realize all of the future sales expected for the awarded business, and we may have difficulty recouping the costs expended in the expansion. Commodity inflationary pressures may adversely affect our profitability and the viability of our Tier 2 and Tier 3 supply base. The cost of most of the commodities we use in our business, such as ferrous metals, base metals, and petroleum-based products as well as energy and transportation costs, has increased significantly in the past few years. Although prices have not remained at peak levels for certain of our raw materials and manufactured components that have traditionally been susceptible to inflation, such as steel and castings, inflationary pressures have continued to increase for certain other commodities, such as leather rawhides, yarn, certain resins and rare earth metals as examples. Further, as production increases, commodity inflationary pressures may increase, both in the automotive industry and in the broader economy. These pressures put significant operational and financial burdens on us and our suppliers, potentially resulting in declining margins and operating results. It is generally difficult to pass the full extent of increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases and, even if passed through to some extent, the recovery is typically on a delayed basis. Furthermore, our suppliers may not be able to handle the commodity cost increases and continue to perform as we expect. The unstable condition of some of our suppliers or their failure to perform has caused us to incur additional costs which negatively impacted certain of our businesses in 2011. If these inflationary pressures worsen, our suppliers may not be able to perform as we expect, which may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar, as well as other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our results of operations. In 2011, approximately 77% of our sales originated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currencies into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements. This translation is based on average exchange rates during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Separately, while we generally produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, our sales are more concentrated in U.S. dollars and in euros than our expenses, and therefore our profit margins and earnings could be reduced due to fluctuations or adverse trends in foreign currency exchange rates. While we employ financial instruments to hedge certain of these exposures, this does not insulate us completely from currency fluctuation effects. We could be adversely affected by any shortage of supplies causing a production disruption. Either we, our customers, or other suppliers may experience supply shortages of, or delays in the supply of, components or raw materials. This could be caused by a number of factors, including insufficient production line capacity or manpower or working capital constraints or other factors, including weather emergencies and natural or man-made disasters impacting the accessibility of raw materials or components, labor or political unrest, commercial disputes, public health concerns or acts of terrorism or other hostilities. Although we consider the production capacities, financial condition and physical locations of suppliers in our selection process, there is no assurance that the foregoing factors will not result in any shortages or delays. Further, we and others in our industry have been rationalizing and consolidating our supply base in order to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods and services. In addition, due to the turbulence in the automotive industry, several suppliers have ceased operations. As a result, there is greater dependence on fewer sources of supply for certain components and materials. Further, many suppliers downsized significantly during the economic downturn and may face capacity constraints as the industry recovery progresses. These factors could increase the possibility of a supply shortage of any particular component or material. 15 Table of Contents If any of our customers experience a material supply shortage, either directly or as a result of a supply shortage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, if we or one of our own suppliers experience a supply shortage, we may become unable to produce the affected products if we cannot procure the components from another source. Such production interruptions could impede a ramp-up in vehicle production and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continuing pricing pressures from our customers may adversely affect our profitability. Pricing pressure in the automotive supply industry has been substantial and is likely to continue. Virtually all vehicle manufacturers seek price reductions in both the initial bidding process and during the term of the contract. Estimating such amounts is subject to uncertainties because any price reductions are a result of negotiations with our customers and other factors. Price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins and are expected to do so in the future. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, those price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our costs may increase as the industry recovery progresses, negatively impacting our profitability. In reaction to the decline in production volumes in 2008 and 2009, we undertook various initiatives to restructure our business and cut our costs, many of which may not be sustainable as the industry recovery progresses. For example, in 2009 we did not provide merit increases to our salaried employees and we significantly curtailed a number of expenses including, among other things, our travel budget. However, we have resumed our practice of providing merit increases and relaxed our spending limitations in certain areas. In addition, as the industry stabilizes and/or production increases and we look to future growth, we have been increasing our hiring as well as our budgeted capital expenditures. Such actions may negatively impact our profitability. Our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we lost any of our largest customers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales to our three largest customer groups on a worldwide basis were approximately 48% of our total sales. Although business with each customer is typically split among numerous contracts, if we lost a major customer or that customer significantly reduced its purchases of our products, there could be a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have significant operations outside the United States and we intend to continue to expand our operations in certain emerging markets such as China and Brazil. Operations outside of the United States, particularly operations in emerging markets, are subject to various risks which may not be present or as significant for operations within U.S. markets. Government actions in markets subject to governmental control and economic uncertainty in some geographic regions in which we operate, including certain emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows in those areas. Risks inherent in our international operations include: exposure to local economic conditions (including, for example, the possibility that one or more countries may separate from the European Union and revert to using local currencies); wage inflation in emerging markets, social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; the impact of changes in local economic conditions, such as inflation levels; currency exchange controls; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; import or export licensing requirements; the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; restrictive governmental actions such as restrictions on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade and foreign investment; more 16 Table of Contents expansive legal rights of foreign labor unions; the potential for nationalization of enterprises; exposure to local public health concerns and the resultant impact on economic and political conditions; and unsettled political conditions in general and possible terrorist attacks, drug cartel related violence or acts of war or expansion of hostilities. Further, there are potential tax inefficiencies in repatriating funds from non-U.S. subsidiaries. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable. Our non-U.S. operations include joint ventures and other alliances, most significantly in the Asia-Pacific region. Additional risks characteristic of these arrangements include the risk of conflicts arising between us and our joint venture partners and the lack of unilateral control of management. We also risk circumstances where our joint venture partner may fail to satisfy its obligations, which could result in increased liabilities to us. Further, our ability to repatriate funds may be constrained by the terms of particular agreements with our joint venture partners. These and other factors may have an adverse effect on our international operations and, therefore, on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which may become more pronounced as we expand further in these areas. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, this could have a material adverse impact on our business and our competitive position. We own significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. Further, as we expand our operations in jurisdictions where the protection of intellectual property rights is less robust, such as China where we are building a new research and development facility, the risk of others duplicating our proprietary technologies increases, despite efforts we undertake to protect them. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect these rights, could materially adversely impact our business and our competitive position. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty and recall claims that may be brought against us. In our business we have an inherent risk of product liability and warranty claims, and we may be required to participate in product recalls. Vehicle manufacturers have experienced a higher level of recall campaigns in recent years, and are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with product liability, warranty and recall claims and we have been subject to continuing efforts by our customers to change contract terms and conditions concerning warranty and recall participation. Further, as vehicle manufacturers lengthen their warranty commitments to consumers and the affected vehicles age, warranty claims may increase. In addition, we have experienced, and may continue to see, an increase in our costs to defend product liability cases, due to the bankruptcies of Chrysler LLC and General Motors Corporation. Given the foregoing and the uncertain nature of litigation of such matters, product liability, warranty and recall costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by environmental and safety regulations or concerns. Laws and regulations governing environmental and occupational safety and health are complicated, change frequently and have tended to become stricter over time. As a manufacturing company, we and our operations are subject to these laws and regulations both inside and outside the United States. We may not be in complete compliance with such laws and regulations at all times, and violations of these requirements could result in fines or sanctions, obligations to investigate or remediate contamination, third party property damage or personal injury claims due to the migration of contaminants off-site, or modification or revocation of our operating permits. As an owner and operator, we could also be responsible under some laws for responding to contamination detected 17 Table of Contents at any of our operating sites or at third party sites to which our wastes were sent for disposal, regardless of whether we caused the contamination, or the legality of the original activity. Our costs or liabilities relating to these matters may be more than the amount we have reserved and the difference may be material. We have spent (and in the future will spend) money to comply with environmental requirements, which expenditures could be significant in order to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws that may be adopted in the future. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and health and safety claims, including certain asbestos-related claims. While our annual costs to defend and settle these claims in the past have not been material, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we cannot provide assurance that this will remain so in the future. Our pension and other postretirement benefits expense and the funding requirements of our pension plans could materially increase, reducing our profitability. A significant number of our employees participate in defined benefit pension plans or retirement/termination indemnity plans. However, we have taken action to limit our future liabilities under certain of these plans, including the two largest. Effective September 30, 2009, we froze our U.K. pension plan, and effective December 31, 2010, we froze our U.S. salaried pension plan so that benefits would not continue to accrue beyond those dates. The obligations and expense recognized in our financial statements for these plans is actuarially determined based on certain assumptions which are driven by market conditions, including interest rates. Additionally, market conditions impact the underlying value of the assets held by the plans for settlement of these obligations. Declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could negatively affect the funded status of these plans and the level and timing of required contributions in 2013 and beyond. Additionally, these factors could significantly increase our pension expense and reduce our profitability. We also sponsor other postretirement employee benefits (“OPEB”) primarily in the United States and Canada. We fund our OPEB costs on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. We are subject to increased OPEB cash outlays and costs due to increasing health care costs, among other factors. Increases in the expected costs of health care in excess of current assumptions could increase our actuarially determined obligations and our related OPEB expense along with future cash outlays. Work stoppages or other labor issues at our facilities or the facilities of our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our operations. Due to normal and ordinary labor negotiations or as a result of a specific labor dispute, a work stoppage may occur in our facilities or those of our customers or other suppliers. Actions taken to address negative industry trends in recent years, coupled with the industry recovery, may have the side effect of exacerbating labor relations problems which could increase the possibility of such a work stoppage. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, either directly or as a result of a work stoppage at another supplier, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Similarly, a work stoppage at our facilities or one of our own suppliers could limit or stop our production of the affected products. Such interruptions in our production could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our annual effective tax rate could be volatile and materially change as a result of our determinations regarding the need for valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets, our mix of earnings between jurisdictions and other factors. The overall effective tax rate is equal to consolidated tax expense as a percentage of consolidated earnings before tax. However, tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Therefore, a material shift in the mix of earnings between jurisdictions could result in a material change in our effective tax rate. In addition, we have recorded a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in various taxing jurisdictions. As a result, pre-tax earnings and losses in those jurisdictions do not result in a corresponding income tax expense or benefit. During the fourth quarter of 2011, based upon all the available evidence, it was determined that the valuation allowance in the United States was no longer required. As a result 18 Table of Contents the effective tax rate in the current quarter was significantly impacted and our effective tax rate going forward will also be significantly impacted. If operating results improve or deteriorate on a sustained basis, jurisdiction by jurisdiction, our conclusions regarding the need for a valuation allowance could change. Both the reversal of an existing valuation allowance or the initial recognition of a new valuation allowance could have a significant impact on income tax expense, and therefore the effective tax rate, in the period recognized and subsequent periods. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, which may become impaired in the future, adversely affecting our financial condition. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired, and other identifiable intangible assets, including trademarks and customer relationships. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income. In connection with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded an impairment charge related to our trademark intangible asset of $30 million. As of December 31, 2011, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled $2,051 million, or 20% of our total assets. We remain subject to future financial statement risk in the event that goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets become further impaired. A disruption in our information technology (“IT”) systems could adversely impact our business and operations We rely on the accuracy, capacity and security of our IT systems and our ability to continually update these systems in response to the changing needs of our business. Despite the security measures we have implemented, our systems could be breached and/or damaged by computer viruses or unauthorized physical or electronic access. Such a breach could result in not only business disruption, but also theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets and/or unauthorized access to controlled data and personal information stored in connection with our human resources function. To the extent that any data is lost or destroyed or any confidential information is inappropriately disclosed or used, it could adversely affect our competitive position, affect our relationships with our customers, harm our business and possibly lead to claims based upon alleged breaches of contract or applicable laws. Any interruption or breach of our IT systems could adversely affect our business operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage that could be caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 