ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Merchandising Business A decline in discretionary consumer spending could reduce our revenue. Our revenue depends on discretionary consumer spending, which may decrease due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including: • unfavorable general business conditions;• increases in interest rates;• increases in inflation;• wars, fears of war, and terrorist attacks and organizing activities;• increases in consumer debt levels and decreases in the availability of consumer credit;• adverse or unseasonal weather conditions or events;• increases in gasoline prices reducing the willingness to travel to our retail stores;• adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations;• adverse legislation relating to sales of firearms and ammunition;< /table>• increases in taxation;• adverse fluctuations of foreign currencies;• adverse unemployment trends;• adverse conditions in the mortgage and housing markets; and• other factors that adversely influence consumer confidence and spending. Our customers' purchases of discretionary items, including our products, could decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our re venue would decline. Difficult conditions in the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the economy generally. Volatile oil prices, depressed real estate values, the availability and cost of credit, risks of increased inflation and deflation, low business and consumer confidence, and high unemployment have created fears of continuing unfavorable economic conditions. Factors such as consumer spending and the volatilit y and strength of the capital markets all affect the business and macroeconomic environment and, ultimately, the revenue and profitability of our business. In an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, and lower consumer spending, the demand for our products could be adversely affected. This may materially affect our business and results of operations.Competition in the outdoor recreation and casual apparel and footwear markets could reduce our revenue and profitability. The outdoor recreation and casual apparel and footwear markets are highly fragmented and competitive. We compete directly or indirectly with the following types of companies: • other specialty retailers that compete with us across a significant portion of our merchandising categories through retail store or direct businesses, such as Bass Pro Shops, Gander Mountain, Orvis, The Sportsman's Guide, and Sportsman's Warehouse;• large-format sporting goods stores and chains, such as The Sports Authority, Dick's Sporting Goods, and Big 5 Sporting Goods;• retailers that curre ntly compete with us through retail businesses that may enter the direct business; • mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, discount stores, and department stores, such as Wal-Mart and Target; and• casual outdoor apparel and footwear retailers, such as L.L. Bean, Lands' End, and REI. 12 Many of our competitors have a larger number of stores, and some of them have substantially greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, di stribution, marketing, and other resources than we have. In addition, if our competitors reduce their prices, we may have to reduce our prices in order to compete. Furthermore, some of our competitors have aggressively built new stores in locations with high concentrations of our Direct business customers. As a result of this competition, we may need to spend more on advertising and promotion. Some of our mass merchandising competitors, such as Wal-Mart, do not currently compete in many of the product lines we offer. If these competitors were to begin offering a broader array of competing products, or if any of the other factors listed above occurred, our revenue could be reduced or our costs could be increased, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our credit arrangements, especially the financial covenants, our unsecured revolving credit facility could be terminated and our unsecured senior notes could become due and payable. Our $350 million unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured senior notes contain certain financial covenants, including the maintenance of minimum debt coverage, a fixed-charge coverage ratio, a cash flow leverage ratio, and a minimum tangible net worth standard. We may not be able to satisfy these ratios, especially if our operating results deteriorate as a result of, but not limited to, adverse economic conditions or the impact of other risk factors that may have a nega tive impact on our business and results of operations. A breach of any financial covenant or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under our unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured senior notes, and we can provide no assurance that we would be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments from our lenders to remedy a default. In the event of any default that is not waived, the lenders under our unsecured revolving credit facility are not required to lend any additional amounts or issue letters of credit and could require us to apply all of our available cash to collateralize any outstanding letters of credit and declare any outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, the holders of our unsecured senior notes could declare all outstanding amounts, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. We may not be able to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing if needed. Volatility in the equity and debt markets, tightening of the credit markets, and the worldwide economic environment could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital or obtain additional financing, and jeopardize the counterparty obligations of one or more of the banks participating in our $350 million unsecured revolving credit facility. We cannot be certain that additional f unds will be available if needed and to the extent required or, if available, on acceptable terms. If we cannot raise necessary additional funds on acceptable terms, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We also may not be able to fund expansion, take advantage of future opportunities, meet our existing debt obligations, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Our comparable store sales will fluctuate and may not be a meaningful indicator of future performance. Changes in our comparable store s ales results could affect the price of our common stock. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: • competition;• new store openings;• general regional and national economic conditions; • actions taken by our competitors;• consumer trends and preferences;• new product introductions and changes in our product mix;• timing and effectiveness of promotional events; and • weather conditions. Our comparable store sales may vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or comparable store sales may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly.13 If we fail to maintain the strength and value of our brand, our revenue is likely to decline. Our success depends on the value and strength of the Cabela's brand. The Cabela's name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting, and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide high quality merchandise and a consistent, high quality customer experience. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could result in decreases in revenue.If we cannot successfully implement system changes in support of our customer relationship management system, our operating results could suffer.We are implementing substantial information technology system changes in support of our customer relationship management system in our Direct business. There are inherent risks associated with these system changes that could affect our ability to take customer orders, to deliver products to our customers in an efficient manner, and to collect cash from our customers. For example, in October 2010, we implemented a signifi cant number of information technology system changes and encountered issues with these system changes that affected our ability to take and process customer orders and to deliver products to our customers in an efficient manner. Our success in this implementation depends on our ability to process customer orders, including the collection of cash, track customer data and demographics, and provide accurate financial data and reporting. We may be unable to successfully implement these system changes, or the changes to this system could result in order fulfillment and cash collection issues, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, there is no assurance that successful implementation of these system changes will deliver value to us. Failure to protect the personal information of our customers may harm our business and reputation. The nature of our business requires that we collect and maintain personal information about our customers. We use third-party systems, software, and tools in order to protect the customer data we obtain through the course of our business. Although we maintain security measures to protect such customer information, security breaches, computer viruses, acts of vandalism, human error, or other similar events may result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information. Such a security breach could damage our reputation with our customers and expose us to the risk of litigation.If we cannot successfully implement our retail store expansion strategy, our growth and profitability would be adversely impacted. We continue to seek additional locations to open new retail stores. Our ability to open new retail stores in a timely manner and operate them profitably depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:• our ability to manage the financial and operational aspects of our retail growth strategy;• our ability to identify suitable locations, including our ability to gather and assess demogr aphic and marketing data to determine consumer demand for our products in the locations we select;• our ability to negotiate and obtain economic development packages with local and state governments where our new retail stores would be located;• our ability to negotiate favorable lease agreements;• our ability to properly assess the profitability of potential new retail store locations;• the availability of financing on favorable terms;• our ability to secure required governmental permits and approvals;• our ability to hire and train skilled store operating personnel, especially management personnel;• the availability of construction materials and labor and the absence of significant construction delays or cost overruns;• our ability to provide a satisfactory mix of merchandise that is responsive to the needs of our customers living in the areas where new retail stores are built;• our abili ty to supply new retail stores with inventory in a timely manner;• our ability to properly assess operational and regulatory challenges involved in opening and successfully operating retail stores in Canada; • &n bsp;our competitors building or leasing stores near our retail stores or in locations we have identified as targets for a new retail store; and• general economic and business conditions affecting consumer confidence and spending and the overall strength of our business. 14 We may not be able to sustain the growth in the number of our retail stores, the revenue growth historically achieved by our retail stores, or to maintain consistent levels of profitability in our Retail business, particularly as we expand into markets now served by other large-format sporting goods retailers and mass merchandisers. In particular, new retail stores typically generate lower operating margins because pre-opening costs are fully expensed in the year of opening and because fixed costs, as a percentage of revenue, are higher. In addition, the substantial management time and resources which our retail store expansion strategy requires may result in disruption to our existing business operations which may decrease our profitability. The slower pace of our retail store expansion may negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. The opening of new retail stores has contributed significantly to the growth of our merchandising revenue. As part of our efforts to improve retail operations, and in light of the challenging macroeconomic environment facing re tailers, we made the strategic decision to slow the pace of our retail store expansion. We opened eight new retail stores in 2007, two new retail stores in 2008, one new retail store in 2009, and one new retail store in 2010. In 2011, we expect to open two new retail stores in the United States and one new retail store in Canada. The slower pace of our retail store expansion may negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. Retail store expansion could adversely affect the operating results of our Retail business and reduce the revenue of our Direct business. As the number of our retail stores increases, our stores will become more highly concentrated in the geographic regions we serve. As a result, the number of customers and related revenue at individual stores may decline and the average amount of sales per square foot at our stores may be reduced. In addition, as we open more retail stores and as our competitors open stores with similar formats, our retail store format may become less unique and may be less attractive to customers as tourist and entertainment shopping locations. If either of these events occurs, the operating results of our Retail business could be adversely affected. The growth in the number of our retail stores may also draw customers away from our Direct business, which could adversely affect our Direct business revenue. Our failure to successfully manage our Direct business could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. During 2010, our Direct business accounted for 41.4% of the total revenue in our Retail and Direct businesses. Our Direct business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control, including the following:• our inability to properly adjust the fixed costs of a catalog mailing to reflect subsequent sales of the products marketed in the catalog;• lower and less predictable response rates for catalogs sent to prospective customers;• increases in United States Postal Service rates, paper costs, and printing costs resulting in higher catalog production costs and lower profits for our Direct business;• failures to properl y design, print, and mail our catalogs in a timely manner;• failures to introduce new catalog titles;• failures to timely fill customer orders;• changes in consumer preferences, willingness to purchase goods through catalogs or the Internet, weak economic conditions and economic uncertainty, and unseasonal weather in key geographic markets;• increases in software filters that may inhibit our ability to market our products through e-mail messages to our customers and increases in consumer privacy concerns relating to the Internet;• supply and delivery shortages or interruptions, including reduced service levels from the United States Postal Service, and other interruptions or disruptions to our systems, processes, or con trols, caused by system changes or other factors, including technology system changes in support of our customer relationship management system;• changes in applicable federal and state regulation;• breaches of Internet security; and• failures in our Internet infrastructure or the failure of systems of third parties, such as telephone or electric power service, resulting in website downtime, customer care center closures, or other problems. Any one or more of these factors could result in lower-than-expected revenue for our Direct business. These factors could also result in increased costs, increased merchandise returns, slower turning inventories, inventory write-downs, and working capital constraints. Because our Direct business accounts for a significant portion of our total revenue, any performance shortcomings experienced by our Direct business could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows.15 Any disruption of the supply of products and services from our vendors could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Our vendors and service providers include the following:• vendors to supply our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices in a timely manner;• outside printers and catalog production vendors to print and mail our catalogs and to convert our catalogs to digital format for website posting;• shipping companies, such as United Parcel Service, the United States Postal Service, and common carriers, for timely delivery of our catalogs, shipment of merchandise to our customers, and delivery of merchandise from our vendors to us and from our distribution centers to our retail stores;• telephone companies to provide telephone service to our in-house customer care centers;• communications providers to provide our Internet users with access to our website and a website hosting service provider to host and manage our website; • & nbsp; software providers to provide software and related services to run our operating systems for our Retail and Direct businesses; and• third-party card processors, such as First Data Resources, that process Cabela's CLUB Visa transactions. Any disruption in these services could have a negative impact on our ability to market and sell our products, and serve our customers. Our ten largest trade vendors collectively represented approximately 16% of our total merchandise purchases in 2010. If we are unable to acquire suitable merchandise or lose one or more key vendors, we may not be able to offer products that are important to our merchandise assortment. We also are subject to risks, such as the price and availability of raw materials and fabrics, labor disputes, union organizing activity, strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters, war and terrorism, and advers e general economic and political conditions that might limit our vendors' ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis. We have no contractual arrangements providing for continued supply from our key vendors and our vendors may discontinue selling to us at any time. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently purchase. Any delay or failure in offering products to our customers could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. In addition, if the cost of fuel rises, the cost to deliver merchandise to the customers of our Direct business and from our distribution centers to our retail stores may rise which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Political and economic uncertaint y and unrest in foreign countries where our merchandise vendors are located and trade restrictions upon imports from these foreign countries could adversely affect our ability to source merchandise and operating results. In 2010, approximately 17% of our merchandise was imported directly from vendors located in foreign countries, with approximately 91% of our imported merchandise being obtained directly from vendors located in China, Vietnam, El Salvador, India, and Taiwan. In addition, we believe that a significant portion of our other vendors obtain their products from foreign countries that may also be subject to political and economic uncertainty. We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries where our vendors are located, such as:• increased import duties, tariffs, trade restrictions, and quotas;• work stoppages;• economic uncertainties; • adverse foreign government regulations;• wars, fears of war, and terrorist attacks and organizing activities;• adverse fluctuations of foreign currencies; and• political unrest. We cannot predict when, or the extent to which, the countries in which our products are manufactured will experience any of the above events. Any event causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign locations would likely increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and would adversely affect our operating results, particularly if imports of our Cabela's branded merchandise were adversely affected as our margins are higher on our Cabela's branded merchandise.In addition, trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as United States or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us or may require us to modify our current business practices, any of which could hurt our profitability.16 Due to the seasonality of our business, our annual operating results would be adversely affected if our revenue during the fourth quarter was substantially below expectations. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. Historically, we have realized a significant porti on of our revenue and earnings for the year in the fourth quarter. In 2010 and 2009, respectively, we generated 35.1% and 34.9% of our revenue, and 59.1% and 33.5% of our net income, in the fourth quarter. We incur significant additional expenses in the fourth quarter due to higher customer purchase volumes and increased staffing. If we miscalculate the demand for our products generally or for our product mix during the f ourth quarter, our revenue could decline, which would harm our financial performance. In addition, abnormally warm weather conditions during the fourth quarter can reduce sales of many of the products normally sold during this time period and inclement weather can reduce store traffic or cause us to temporarily close stores causing a reduction in revenue. Because a substantial portion of our operating income is derived from our fourth quarter revenue, a shortfall in expected fourth quarter revenue would cause our annual operating results to suffer significantly.If we lose key management or are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience, and efforts of our senior executive management and merchandising teams. With the exception of our Chairman, Richard N. Cabela, our Vice Chairmen, James W. Cabela and Dennis Highby, and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas L. Millner, none of our senior management has employment agreements other than our Management Change of Control Severance Agreements. We do not carry key-man life insurance on any of our executives or key management personnel. In addition, our corporate headquarters is located in a sparsely populated rural area which may make it difficult to attract and retain qualified individuals for key management positions. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or the inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for our key management positions could cause our operating results to suffer. Our business depends on our ability to meet our labor needs, and if we are unable to do so, our retail store expansion strategy may be delayed and our revenue growth may suffer. Our success depends on hiring, training, managing, and retaining quality managers, sales associates, and employees in our retail stores and customer care centers. Our corporate headquarters, distribution centers, return center, and some of our retail stores are located in sparsely populated rural areas. It may be difficult to attract and retain q ualified personnel, especially management and technical personnel, in these areas. Competition for qualified management and technical employees could require us to pay higher wages or grant above market levels of stock compensation to attract a sufficient number of employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel as needed, the implementation of our retail store expansion strategy may be delayed and our revenue growth may suffer. A natural disaster or other disruption at our distribution centers or return facility could cause us to lose merchandise and be unable to effectively deliver to our direct customers and retail stores. We currently rely on distribution centers in Sidney, Nebraska; Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin; Wheeling, West Virginia; and Winnipeg, Manitoba, to handle our distribution needs. We operate a return center in Oshkosh, Nebraska; and our Wheeling, West Virginia, distribution center also processes returns. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to these centers due to fire, tornado, or any other calamity could damage a significant portion of our inventory and materially impair our ability to adequately stock our retail stores, deliver merchandise to customers, and process returns to vendors and could result in lost revenue, increased costs, and reduced profits.New state tax initiatives could subject us to liability for past sales and cause our future Direct business sales to decrease. A number of states have adopted initiatives, or are considering adopting initiatives, that require Internet retailers operating “affiliate programs” in the state to collect sales tax on the retailer's sales to residents in these states. We believe that affiliate programs do not create nexus with a state and that these initiatives are inconsistent with the United States Supreme Court's holding that states, absent congressional legislation, may not impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct marketers unless the out-of-state direct marketer has nexus with the state. If these initiatives are successful, we could be required to collect sales taxes in additional s tates. The imposition by state governments of sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct marketers who participate in Internet commerce could create additional administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on our competitors, and decrease our future Direct sales. 17 We must successfully order and manage our inventory to reflect customer demand and anticipate changing consumer preferences and buying trends or our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to successfully manage our inventory and to anticipate and respond to merchandise trends and customer demands in a timely manner. We cannot predict consumer preferences with certainty and they may change over time. We usually must order merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. The extended lead times for many of our purchases may make it difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing product trends or changes in prices. If we misjudge either the market for our merchandise or our customers' purchasing habits, our revenue may decline significantly and we may not have sufficient quantities of merchandise to satisfy cust omer demand or we may be required to mark down excess inventory, either of which would result in lower profit margins. In addition, as we implement our retail store expansion strategy, we will need to construct additional distribution centers or expand the size of our existing distribution centers to support our growing number of retail stores. If we are unable to find suitable locations for new distribution centers or to timely integrate new or expanded distribution centers into our inventory control process, we may not be able to deliver inventory to our retail stores in a timely manner, which could have an adverse effect on the revenue and cash flows of our Retail business. The failure of properties to generate sufficient taxes to amortize economic development bonds owned by us that relate to the development of such properties would have an adverse impact on our cash flows and profitability. We own economic development bonds issued by state or local governmental entities in connection with the development of some of our retail stores. The proceeds of these bonds were used to fund the construction and equipping of new retail stores and related infrastructure development. The repayments of principal and interest on these bonds are typically tied to sales, property, or lodging taxes generated from the related retail store and, in some cases, from other businesses in the surrounding area, over periods which range between 20 and 30 years. However, the governmental entity from which we purchased the bonds is not otherwise liable for repayment of prin cipal and interest on the bonds to the extent that the associated taxes are insufficient to pay the bonds. We make estimates of the discounted future cash flow streams these bonds are expected to generate in the form of interest and principal payments. Because these cash flows are based primarily on future property or sales tax collections at our retail stores and other facilities (which in many cases may not be operating at the time we make our estimates), these estimates are inherently subjective and the probability of ultimate realization is highly uncertain. If sufficient tax revenue is not generated by the subject properties, we will not receive the full amount of the expected payments due under the bonds, which would have an adverse impact on our cash flows and profitability.Our failure to comply with the terms of current economic development agr eements could result in our repayment of grant money or other adverse consequences that would affect our cash flows and profitability. The economic development packages which we have received in connection with the construction of some of our current retail stores have, in some instances, contained forfeiture provisions and other remedies in the event we do not fully comply with the terms of the economic development agreements. Among the terms which could trigger these remedies are the failure to maintain certain employment and wage levels and failure to keep a retail store open. At January 1, 2011, the total amount of grant funding subject to repayment pursuant to a specific contractual remedy was approximately $13 million. Another remedy that has been included in some economic development agreements is loss of priority to tax payments supporting the repayment of bonds held by us. Where specific remedies are not set forth, the local governments would be entitled to pursue general contract remedies. A default by us under these economic development agreements could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and profitability.18 We may incur costs from litigation or increased regulation relating to products that we sell, particularly tree stands and firearms, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We may incur damages due to lawsuits relating to products we sell. We are currently a defendant in certain product liability lawsuits, including lawsuits relating to tree stands. We may incur losses due to lawsuits, including potential class actions, relating to our performance of background checks on firearms purchases and compliance with other sales laws as mandated by state and f ederal law. We may also incur losses from lawsuits relating to the improper use of firearms or ammunition sold by us, including lawsuits by municipalities or other organizations attempting to recover costs from manufacturers and retailers of firearms and ammunition. Our insurance coverage and the insurance provided by our vendors for certain products they sell to us may be inadequate to cover claims and liabilities related to products that we sell. In addition, claims or lawsuits related to products that we sell, or the unavailability of insurance for product liability claims, could result in the elimination of these products from our product line, thereby reducing revenue. If one or more successful claims against us are not covered by or exceed our insurance coverage, or if insurance coverage is no longer available, our available working capital may be impaired and our operating results could be adversely affected. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds and management time and cou ld have a negative impact on our profitability and on future premiums we would be required to pay on our insurance policies.Current and future government regulation may negatively impact demand for our products and our ability to conduct our business. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations can affect our business and the demand for products. These laws and regulations include:• FTC regulations governing the manner in which orders may be solicited and prescribing other obligations in fulfilling orders and consummating sales;• laws and regulations that prohibit or limit the sale, in certain states and localities, of certain items we offer such as firearms, black powder firearms, ammunition, bows, knives, and similar products;• the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives governing the manner in which we sell firearms and ammunition;• laws and regulations governing hunting and fishing;• laws and regulations relating to the collecting and sharing of non-public customer information; and• United States customs laws and regulations pertaining to proper item classification, quotas, payment of duties and tariffs, and maintenance of documentation and internal control programs which relate to importing taxidermy which we display in our retail stores. Changes in these laws and regulations or additional regulation could cause the demand for and sales of our products to decrease. Moreover, complying with increased or changed regulations could cause our operating expenses to increase. This could adversely affect ou r revenue and profitability.Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names, and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. Effective trademark and other intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products are made available. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our revenue. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have an adverse effect on our operating results. 19 Risks Related to Our Financial Services Busines s We may experience limited availability of financing or variation in funding costs for our Financial Services business, which could limit growth of the business and decrease our profitability. Our Financial Services business requires a significant amount of cash to operate. These cash requirements will increase if our credit card originations increase or if our cardholders' balances or spending increase. Historically, we have relied upon external financing sources to fund these operations, and we intend to continue to access external sources to fund our growth. A number of factors such as our financial results, changes within our organization, disruptions in the capital markets, increased competition in the deposit markets, our corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions, possible negative credit ratings affecting our asset-backed securities, and accounting and regulatory changes and relations could make such financing more difficult or impossible to obtain or more expensive. In addition, several rules and regulations have recently been proposed by the SEC that may substantially affect issuers of asset-backed securities. We have been and will continue to be particularly reliant on funding from securitization transactions for our Financial Services business. Securitization funding sources include both variable funding facilities and fixed and floating rate term securitizations. A failu re to renew these facilities, to resecuritize the term securitizations as they mature, or to add additional term securitizations and variable funding facilities on favorable terms as it becomes necessary could increase our financing costs and potentially limit our ability to grow our Financial Services business. In addition, the ability of our Financial Services business to engage in securitization transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, which could materially affect our business and cause our Financial Services business to lose an important source of capital.Furthermore, even if we are able to securitize our credit card loans consistent with past practice, poor performance of our securitized loans, including increased delinquencies and credit losses, lower payment r ates, or a decrease in excess spreads below certain thresholds, could result in a downgrade or withdrawal of the ratings on the outstanding securities issued in our securitization transactions, cause “early amortization” or “early redemption” of these securities, or result in higher required credit enhancement levels. This could jeopardize our ability to complete other securitization transactions on acceptable terms, decrease our liquidity, and force us to rely on other potentially more expensive funding sources, to the extent available, which would decrease our profitability.Our current funding strategy also includes a continued reliance on certificates of deposit to help fund growth and maturing securitizations. If there is an increase in other financial institutions relying on the deposits market for liquidity and funding, competition in the deposits market may increase resulting in less funds available or funds at unattractive rates. In addition to the non-brokered certificates of deposit market to fund growth and maturing securitizations, we have access to the brokered certificates of deposit market through multiple financial institutions for liquidity and funding purposes. Our ability to issue certificates of deposit is reliant on our current regulatory capital levels. If WFB were to be classified as an adequately-capitalized bank, we would be required to obtain a waiver from the FDIC in order to continue to issue certificates of deposits and would be limited to what interest rate we can pay on deposits. At the end of 2010, WFB met the requirements for a well-capitalized institution, the highest of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act's five capital ratio levels. We may have to reallocate capital from our Retail and Direct businesses to meet the capital needs of our Financial Services business, which could alter our retail store expansion program. WFB must satisfy the capital maintenance requirements of government regulators and its agreement with Visa U.S.A., Inc. ("Visa"). Although WFB satisfied the requirements for the well-capitalized classification under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action at December 31, 2010, no assurances can be given that WFB will continue to satisfy such requirements. A variety of factors could cause the capital requirements of WFB to exceed our ability to generate capital internally or from third party sources. For example, government regulators or Visa could unilaterally increase their minimum capital requirements. Also, we have significant potential obligations in the form of the unused credit lines of our cardholders. At January 1, 2011, these unfunded amounts totaled approximately $16 billion. Draws on these lines of credit could materially exceed predicted line usage. If WFB ceases to qualify as well-capitalized, WFB would become subject to regulatory restrictions that could materially adversely affect its liquidity, cost of funds, and ability to conduct normal operations. If WFB's capital requirements were to increase, we may have to contribute capital to W FB, which may require us to raise additional debt or equity capital and/or divert capital from our Retail and Direct businesses, which in turn could significantly alter our retail store expansion strategy.20 It may be difficult to sustain the historical growth and profitability of our Financial Services business, and we will be subject to various risks as we attempt to grow the business. We may not be able to retain existing cardholders, grow account balances, or attract new cardholders and the profits from our Financial Services business could decline, for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including:• credit risk related to the loans we make to cardholders and the charge-off levels of our credit card accounts;• inability of cardholders to make payments to us due to economic conditions and limited access to other credit sources; • inabi lity to manage credit risk and keep credit models up to date with current consumer credit trends;• lack of growth of potential new customers generated by our Retail and Direct businesses;• liquidity and funding risk relating to our ability to create the liquidity necessary to extend credit to our cardholders and provide the capital necessary to meet the requirements of government regulators and Visa; • operational risk related to our ability to acquire the necessary operational and organizational infrastructure, manage expenses as we expand, and recruit management and operations personnel with the experience to run an increasingly com plex and highly-regulated business; and• the credit card industry is highly competitive with increased use of advertising, target marketing, reward programs, and pricing competition in interest rates and cardholder fees as both traditional and new credit card issuers seek to expand or to enter the market and compete for customers. Economic downturns and soci al and other factors could cause our credit card charge-offs and delinquencies to increase, or credit card balances to decrease, which would decrease our profitability. Recent economic conditions have adversely affected unemployment rates, consumer spending, consumer indebtedness, and the availability of consumer credit, which in turn adversely affected the ability and willingness of the cardholders to pay amounts owed to our Financial Services business. These factors led to increased delinquencies and charge-offs during the recent economic downturn. The general economic environment may worsen, unemployment may continue to remain high, the housing market may continue to be depressed, and consumer credit availability may decrease. The abilit y and willingness of cardholders to pay could be adversely affected, which would increase delinquencies and charge-offs. In addition, if economic conditions deteriorate, the number of transactions and average purchase amount of transactions on the credit card accounts may be reduced, which would reduce the revenue of our Financial Services business. A variety of social and other factors also may cause changes in credit card use, payment patterns, and the rate of defaults by cardholders. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the public's perception of the use of credit cards, changing attitudes about incurring debt, and the stigma of personal bankruptcy. Our underwriting criteria, portfolio management, product design, and collection operations may be insufficient to protect the growth and profitability of our Financial Services business during a susta ined period of economic downturn or recession or a material shift in social attitudes. The performance of our Financial Services business may be negatively affected by the performance of our merchandising businesses. Negative developments in our Retail and Direct businesses could affect our ability to grow or maintain our Financial Services business. We believe our ability to maintain cardholders and attract new cardholde rs is highly correlated with customer loyalty to our merchandising businesses and to the strength of the Cabela's brand. In addition, transactions on cardholder accounts produce loyalty points which the cardholder may apply to future purchases from us. Adverse changes in the desirability of products we sell, negative trends in retail customer service and satisfaction, or the termination or modification of the loyalty program could have a negative impact on WFB's ability to grow its account base.21 Our Financial Services business faces the risk of a complex and changing regulatory and legal environment.Our Financial Services business operates in a heavily regulated industry and is therefore subject to a wide array of banking and consumer lending laws and regulations. Failure to comply with banking and consumer lending laws and regulations could result in financial, structural, and operational penalties being imposed. For example, on March 5, 2010, WFB received a preliminary report related to a compliance examination conducted in the second quarter of 2009 from the FDIC. WFB received the final version of this report from the FDIC on May 19, 2010. The FDIC's findings were that certain practices by WFB regarding the assessment of overlimit fees, late fees, and penalty interest charges and contacting delinquent cardholders a t their place of employment were improper because such practices were unfair and/or deceptive under applicable law. The FDIC has indicated that it intends to require WFB to reimburse cardholders who paid improper fees and/or interest charges and has also indicated that it will seek to impose on WFB a monetary penalty as a result of the improper practices. Subsequent to January 1, 2011, WFB and the FDIC agreed in principle to settle all matters related to the 2009 compliance examination. As of January 1, 2011, we had accrued a liability of $8 million in our consolidated financial statements for the matters cited by the FDIC in its examination report.The CARD Act and related regulations restrict our ability to increase interest rates on existing credit card balances, charge over-limit fees, and charge fees for making a payment. The CARD Act provisions also furth er define acceptable due dates, payment allocations, disclosure requirements, and “reasonable” fees and prohibit increasing the interest rates on variable-rate credit card accounts that are subject to a fixed-rate floor. As a result of the CARD Act, our Financial Services Revenue was negatively impacted. Beginning in February 2011, the third phase of the CARD Act requires creditors that increased annual percentage rates due to credit criteria, market conditions, or other factors on or after January 1, 2009, to review accounts at least every six months to determine whether the annual percentage rate should be reduced, which could result in reduced interest income. The CARD Act also requires the Federal Reserve to conduct various studies regarding interchange fees, credit limit reductions, financial literacy, marketing, and credit card terms and conditions. Future legislation or regulations may be issued as a result of these studies. Future changes as a result of these studies may resu lt in future negative impacts to the revenue from our Financial Services business. In addition, as a Visa member bank, WFB must comply with rules and regulations imposed by Visa. For example, WFB and Cabela's could be fined by Visa for failing to comply with Visa's data security standards.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may impact the practices of our Financial Services business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On July 21, 2010, the Reform Act was signed into law. The Reform Act, as well as other legislative and regulatory changes, could have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring WFB to change its business practices, imposing additional costs on WFB, limiting fees WFB can charge for services, impacting the value of WFB and its assets, or otherwise adversely affecting WFB's business. A description of the Reform Act and other legislative and regulatory developments is contained in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Developments in Legislation and Regulation.” In addition, the Reform Act directs the Comptroller General of the United States to complete a study within 18 m onths of the Reform Act's enactment to determine whether it is necessary, in order to strengthen the safety and soundness of institutions or the stability of the financial system, to eliminate certain exceptions under the BHCA, including the exception for credit card banks. If the credit card bank exception were eliminated or modified, we may be required to divest our ownership of WFB unless we were willing and able to become a bank holding company under the BHCA. Any such forced divestiture would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Reform Act will also effect a number of significant changes relating to asset-backed securities, including additional oversight and regulation of credit rating agencies and additional reporting and disclosure requirements. In addition, the Reform A ct will prohibit issuers and payment card networks from placing restrictions on vendors relating to credit card transactions, which could affect consumer behavior and the use of credit cards as a form of payment. The Reform Act will also likely result in increased scrutiny and oversight of consumer financial services and products, including credit cards, primarily through the establishment of the new independent Bureau within the Federal Reserve. The Bureau will have broad rulemaking and enforcement authority over providers of credit, savings, and payment services and products. The Bureau will have rulemaking and interpretive a uthority under existing and future consumer financial services laws and supervisory, examination, and enforcement authority over institutions subject to its jurisdiction. State officials are authorized to enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. 22 Many provisions of the Reform Act require the adoption of rules to implement.& nbsp; In addition, the Reform Act mandates multiple studies, which could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. The effect of the Reform Act and its implementing regulations on WFB's business and operations could be significant. In addition, we may be required to invest significant management time and resources to address the various provisions of the Reform Act and the numerous regulations that are required to be issued under it. The Reform Act, any related legislation, and any implementing regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.Changes in interest rates could have a negative impact on our earnings. In connection with our Financial Services business, we borrow money from institutions and accept funds by issuing brokered and non-brokered certificates of deposit and secured borrowings, which we then lend to cardholders. We earn interest on the cardholders' account balances, and pay interest on the certificates of deposit and borrowings we use to fund those loans. Changes in these two interest rates affect the value of the assets and liabilities of our Financial Services business. If the rate of interest we pay on borrowings increases more (or more rapidly) than the rate of interest we earn on loans, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could fall. Our earnings could also be adversely affected if the rates on our credit card account balances fall more quickly than those on our borrowings. In addition, at the end of 2010, ap proximately 34% of our cardholders did not maintain balances on their credit card accounts. We do not earn any interest from these accounts but do earn other fees from these accounts such as Visa interchange fees. In the event interest rates rise, the spread between the interest rate we pay on our borrowings and the fees we earn from these accounts may change and our profitability may be adversely affected. Credit card industry litigation and regulation could adversely impact the amount of revenue our Financial Services business generates from interchange fees.Our Financial Services business faces possible risk from the outcomes of certain credit card industry litigation and potential regulation of interchange fees. For example, a number of entities, each purporting to represent a class of retail merchants, have sued Visa and several member banks, and other credit card associations, alleging, among other things, that Visa and its member banks have violated United States antitrust laws by conspiring to fix the level of interchange fees. To date, we have not been named as a defendant in any credit card industry lawsuits. Moreover, the amount of interchange fees that are charged to merchants could be capped or limited by credit card industry regulation. If the interchange fees that are charged to merchants are reduced as a result of the interchange lawsuits or regulation, the financial condition and results of operations of our Financial Services business may be negatively impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 