D. Risk Factors Risk Factors Related to Our Financial Condition and Business We may not be able to achieve or maintain a level of profitability, primarily due to the possibility of increasing fixed costs and market competition reflected in price erosion in the average selling prices of our products. Our profit totaled US$174.5 million in 2013 and US$22.5 million in 2012. However, with the offsetting impact of such profits, we still have net accumulated losses of US$1,693.9 million as of the end of 2013. We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability on an annual or quarterly basis, primarily because our business is characterized by high fixed costs relating to advanced technology equipment purchases, which result in correspondingly high levels of depreciation expenses. We will continue to incur capital expenditures and depreciation expenses as we equip and ramp-up additional fabs and expand our capacity at our existing fabs. This may result in an increase of our fixed costs and possibly reduce our chances of achieving or maintaining profitability. Currently, the planned capital expenditures in 2014 for foundry operations is approximately US$880 million of which around US$570 million is for our majority owned subsidiary in Beijing, Semiconductor Manufacturing North China (Beijing) Corporation, or SMNC, which is 55% funded by us and 45% funded by the other shareholders of the entity. We also have budgeted approximately US$110 million as the 2014 capital expenditures for non-foundry operations mainly for the construction of living quarters for employees as part of our employee retention program. In addition, we are competing in the same technology environment as a number of other foundries and our competitors who operate these foundries often use price as a means of securing business, resulting in erosion of the average selling price of our product portfolio, which adversely affects our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. 8 Table of Contents The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and periodic overcapacity make our business and operating results particularly vulnerable to economic downturns, such as a global economic crisis. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant downturns characterized by fluctuations in end-user demand, reduced demand for integrated circuits, rapid erosion of average selling prices and production overcapacity. Companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand in order to have the capacity needed to meet such increased demand or expected demand in the future. If actual demand is not sustained, does not increase or declines, or if companies in the industry expand too aggressively in light of the actual increase in demand, the industry will generally experience a period in which industry- wide capacity exceeds demand. During periods when industry-wide capacity exceeds demand, our operations are subject to more intense competition, and our results of operations are likely to suffer because of the resulting pricing pressure and capacity underutilization. Severe pricing pressure could result in the overall foundry industry becoming less profitable, at least for the duration of the downturn, and could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. We expect that industry cyclicality will continue. In addition, an erosion of global consumer confidence amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Adverse economic conditions could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. The failure of financial institutions could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs and currency exchange rates. Economic downturns may also lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. If we cannot take appropriate or effective actions in a timely manner during any economic downturns, such as reducing our costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand for our services, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. A prolonged period of economic decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Economic uncertainty also makes it difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin and expenses. Furthermore, a slowdown in the growth in demand for, or the continued reduction in selling prices of, devices that use semiconductors may decrease the demand for our products and reduce our profit margins. 9 Table of Contents The loan agreements entered into by members of the Group contain certain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The terms of certain of the existing loan agreements entered into by members of the Group contain, and certain future indebtedness of the Group would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on the Group, including restrictions on the ability of members of the Group to, among other things: · pay dividends; · repay outstanding shareholder loans and provide loans to subsidiaries; and · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of any of our assets under certain conditions. In addition, certain loan agreements of the Group contain, and any future loan agreements may contain, cross-default clauses whereby a default under one of the loan agreements may constitute an event of default under the other loan agreements. We may also be required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial covenants. The Group’s ability to meet such financial ratios and other covenants can be affected by various events, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and comply with such covenants in the future. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the existing loan agreements of the Group, which may allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable after the lapse of the relevant grace period and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, any of which could result in an event of default under the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. The impact of deteriorating economic conditions on our customers and suppliers could adversely affect our business. Customer financial difficulties have resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables portfolio. In particular, our exposure to certain financially troubled customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we depend on suppliers of raw materials, such as silicon wafers, gases and chemicals, and spare equipment parts, in order to maintain our production processes. Our business may be disrupted if, due to the insolvency of key suppliers, we are unable to obtain the raw materials required to sustain our operations. Demand instability for foundry services may result in a lower rate of return on investments than previously anticipated and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. The demand for foundry services by IDMs, fabless semiconductor companies and systems companies has been increasing. We have made significant investments in anticipation of the continuation of this trend and, as such, any reversal of this trend will likely result in a lower rate of return on our investments. During an industry slowdown, IDMs may allocate a smaller portion of their fabricating needs to foundry service providers and perform a greater amount of foundry services for system companies and fabless semiconductor companies in order to maintain their equipment’s utilization rates. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Our results of operations may fluctuate from year to year, making it difficult to predict our future performance which may be below our expectations or those of the public market analysts and investors in these periods. Our sales, expenses, and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from year to year due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Our business and operations are subject to a number of factors, including: · our customers’ sales outlook, purchasing patterns and inventory adjustments based on general economic conditions or other factors; · the loss of one or more key customers or the significant reduction or postponement of orders from such customers; · timing of new technology development and the qualification of this technology by our customers; · timing of our expansion and development of our facilities; · our ability to obtain equipment and raw materials; and · our ability to obtain financing in a timely manner. Due to the factors noted above and other risks discussed in this section, year-to-year comparisons cannot be relied upon to predict our future performance. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors may adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in some future periods. If we are unable to maintain high capacity utilization, optimize the technology and product mix of our services or improve our yields, our margins may substantially decline, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends, in part, on our ability to: · maintain high capacity utilization, which is the actual number of wafers we produce in relation to our capacity; · optimize our technology and product mix, which is the relative number of wafers fabricated utilizing higher margin technologies as compared to commodity and lower margin technologies; and · continuously maintain and improve our yield, which is the percentage of usable fabricated devices on a wafer. Our capacity utilization affects our operating results because a large percentage of our costs are fixed. Our technology and product mix has a direct impact upon our average selling prices and overall margins. Our yields directly affect our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as the price of our products. If we are unable to maintain high capacity utilization, optimize the technology and product mix of our wafer production and continuously improve our yields, our margins may substantially decline, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our continuing expansion could present significant challenges to our management and administrative systems and resources, and as a result, we could experience difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Over the next several years, we plan to increase our production capacity through expansion of existing production sites. We expect to add capital equipment and increase our headcount with future increases in production capacity. If we fail to develop and maintain management and administrative systems and resources sufficient to keep pace with our planned growth, we may experience difficulties managing our growth and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we lose one or more of our key personnel without obtaining adequate replacements in a timely manner or if we are unable to retain and recruit skilled personnel, our operations could become disrupted and the growth of our business could be delayed or restricted. Our success depends on the continued service of our key management team members, and in particular, Mr. Zhang Wenyi, Chairman of our Board and Executive Director as well as Dr. Tzu-Yin Chiu, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director. We do not carry full key person insurance. If we lose the services of any of our key executive officers, it could be very difficult to find, relocate and integrate adequate replacement personnel into our operations. As a result, our operations and the growth of our business could be seriously harmed. We will require an increased number of experienced executives, engineers and other skilled employees in the future to implement our growth plans. In addition, we expect demand for skilled and experienced personnel in China to increase in the future as new wafer fabrication facilities and other similar high technology businesses are established there. There is intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel or attract, assimilate and retain new experienced personnel in the future, our operations could become disrupted and the growth of our business could be delayed or restricted. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future sales, adjust our production costs and efficiently allocate our capacity on a timely basis and could therefore have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance of the required shipping dates. In addition, due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our sales in future periods. Also, since our cost of sales and operating expenses have high fixed cost components, including depreciation and employee costs, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner to compensate for shortfalls in sales. Our current and anticipated customers may not place orders with us in accordance with our expectations or at all. As a result, it may be difficult to plan our capacity, which requires significant lead time to ramp-up and cannot be altered easily. If our capacity does not match our customer demand, we will either be burdened with expensive and unutilized overcapacity or unable to support our customers’ requirements, both of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our sales cycles can be long, which could adversely affect our short-term operating results and cause our long- term income stream to be unpredictable. Our sales cycles, which is measured as the time between our first contact with a particular customer and the first shipment of product orders to such customer, vary substantially and can last as long as one year or more, particularly for new technologies. Sales cycles to IDM customers typically take relatively longer since they usually require our engineers to become familiar with the customer’s proprietary technology before production can commence. In addition, even after we make the initial product shipments, it may take the customer several more months to reach full production of that product using our foundry services. As a result of these long sales cycles, we may be required to invest substantial time and incur significant expenses in advance of the receipt of any product order and related revenue. Orders ultimately received may not be in accordance with our expectations and cause our long-term income stream to be unpredictable. 12 Table of Contents If we do not consistently anticipate trends in technology development, we will not be able to maintain or increase our business and operating margins. The semiconductor industry is developing rapidly and the related technologies are constantly evolving. We must be able to anticipate the trends in technology development and rapidly develop and implement new and innovative technologies that our customers require to produce sufficiently advanced products at competitive prices and within the time window of market opportunities. To do this, we must make long- term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources based on forecasts. If there is large variation between our forecasts and the actual outcome, our long- term investments will not yield satisfactory results and our business and operations will be adversely affected. Further, as the life cycle for a process technology matures, the average selling price falls. Accordingly, unless we continually upgrade our capability to manufacture new products that our customers design, our customers may use the services of our competitors instead of ours. This can result in the average selling prices of our wafers falling, which could adversely affect our business and operating margins. Our sales are dependent upon a small number of customers and any decrease in sales to any of them could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been dependent on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2013, our five largest customers accounted for 56.1% and 52.3% of our total sales, respectively. We expect that we will continue to be dependent upon a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. Sales generated from these customers, individually or in the aggregate, may not reach our expectations or historical levels in any future period. Our sales could be significantly reduced if any of these customers cancels or reduces its orders, significantly changes its product delivery schedule, or demands lower prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Since our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to cover our planned capital expenditures, we will require additional external financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Any failure to raise adequate funds in a timely manner could adversely affect our business and operating results. In 2013, our capital expenditures totaled approximately US$770 million and we currently expect our capital expenditures for foundry operations in 2014 to total approximately US$880 million, subject to adjustment based on market conditions. US$570 million of these capital expenditures will be used to expand SMNC, our new Beijing majority owned subsidiary. We also have budgeted approximately US$110 million as the 2014 capital expenditures for non-foundry operations mainly for the construction of living quarters for employees as part of our employee retention program. In addition, our actual expenditures may exceed our planned expenditures for a variety of reasons, including changes in our business plan, our process technology, market conditions, equipment prices, customer requirements or interest rates. Future acquisitions, mergers, strategic investments, or other developments also may require additional financing. The amount of capital required to meet our growth and development targets is difficult to predict in the highly cyclical and rapidly changing semiconductor industry. Our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our capital expenditures requirements. If our operating cash flows are insufficient, we plan to fund the expected shortfall through bank loans. If necessary, we will also explore other forms of external financing. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; · general market conditions for financing activities of semiconductor companies; · our future stock price; and · our future credit rating. External financing may not be available in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Since our capacity expansion is a key component of our overall business strategy, any failure to raise adequate funds could adversely affect our business and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Expansion of our production sites is subject to certain risks that could result in delays or cost overruns, which could require us to expend additional capital and adversely affect our business and operating results. We plan to increase our production capacity through expansion of existing production sites and construction or acquisition of new sites in connection with joint ventures we may establish such as SMNC, our majority owned subsidiary in Beijing. There are a number of events that could delay these expansion projects or increase the costs of building and equipping these or future projects in accordance with our plans. Such potential events include, but are not limited to: · shortages and late delivery of building materials and facility equipment; · delays in the delivery, installation, commissioning and qualification of our manufacturing equipment; · delays in securing financing for the expansion projects; · disagreements with partners involved in the expansion projects; · seasonal factors, such as extended periods of adverse weather that limit construction; · labor disputes; · design or construction changes with respect to building spaces or equipment layout; · delays in securing necessary government approvals or land use rights; and · changes in technology, capacity, or other changes in our plans for new fabs necessitated by changes in market conditions. As a result, our projections relating to capacity, process technology capabilities, or technology developments may significantly differ from actual capacity, process technology capabilities, or technology developments. Delays in the construction and equipping or expansion of any of our fabs could result in the loss or delayed receipt of earnings, an increase in financing costs, or the failure to meet profit and earnings projections, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 15 Table of Contents If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, particularly in China, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. The worldwide semiconductor foundry industry is highly competitive. We compete with other foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., or TSMC, United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, and Global Foundries, as well as the foundry services offered by some IDMs, such as Samsung Electronics. We also compete with smaller semiconductor foundries in China, Korea, Malaysia and other countries. Some of our competitors have greater access to capital and substantially higher capacity, longer or more established relationships with their customers, superior research and development capability, and greater marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, these companies may be able to compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than we can. Some of our competitors have established operations in mainland China in order to compete for the growing domestic market in China. TSMC has its own fab in China, and UMC has established a relationship with a fab in commercial production in China. In these cases, we understand that the ability of these fabs to manufacture wafers using certain more advanced technologies is subject to restrictions by the respective home jurisdiction of TSMC and UMC; however, such restrictions could be reduced or lifted at any time, which may lead to increased competition in China with such competitors and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, various other factors such as import and export controls, foreign exchange controls, exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and political developments affect our ability to compete successfully. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry or are unable to maintain our position as a leading foundry in China, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may be unable to obtain in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost the equipment necessary for our business and therefore may be unable to achieve our expansion plans or meet our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our competitiveness, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is capital-intensive and requires investment in advanced equipment that is available from a limited number of manufacturers. The market for equipment used in semiconductor foundries is characterized, from time to time, by significant demand, limited supply and long delivery cycles. Our business plan depends upon our ability to obtain our required equipment in a timely manner and at acceptable prices. Therefore, we invest in advanced equipment based on advance forecasts of demand. During times of significant demand for the types of equipment we use, lead times for delivery can be as long as one year. Shortages of equipment could result in an increase in equipment prices and longer delivery times. If we are unable to obtain equipment in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to achieve our expansion plans or meet our customers’ orders, which could negatively impact our competitiveness, financial condition, and results of operations. We expect to have an ongoing need to obtain licenses for the proprietary technology of others, which subjects us to the payment of license fees and potential delays in the development and marketing of our products. While we continue to develop and pursue patent protection for our own technologies, we expect to continue to rely on third party license arrangements to enable us to manufacture certain advanced wafers. As of December 31, 2013, we had been granted 3,719 patents worldwide, of which, 60 were in Taiwan, 318 were in the U.S., 3,328 were in China and 13 were in other jurisdictions. In comparison, we believe our competitors and other industry participants have been issued numerous more patents concerning wafer fabrication in multiple jurisdictions. Our limited patent portfolio may in the future adversely affect our ability to obtain licenses to the proprietary technology of others on favorable license terms due to our inability to offer cross-licensing arrangements. The fees associated with such licenses could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. They might also render our services less competitive. If for any reason we are unable to license necessary technology on acceptable terms, it may become necessary for us to develop alternative technology internally, which could be costly and delay the marketing and delivery of key products and therefore have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, we may be unable to independently develop the technology required by our customers on a timely basis or at all, in which case our customers may purchase wafers from our competitors. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of intellectual property rights infringement owing to the nature of our industry partly due to our limited patent portfolio and limitations of the indemnification provisions in our technology license agreements. These claims could adversely affect our business and operating results. There is frequent intellectual property litigation in our industry, involving patents, copyrights, trade secrets, mask works and other intellectual property subject matters. In some cases, a company attempts to avoid or settle litigation on favorable terms if it possesses patents that can be asserted against the plaintiff. The limited size of our current patent portfolio is unlikely to place us in such a favorable bargaining position. Moreover, some of our technology license agreements with our major technology partners do not provide for us to be indemnified in the event that the processes we license pursuant to such agreements infringe third party intellectual property rights. We could be sued for infringing one or more patents as to which we will be unable to obtain a license and unable to design around. As a result, we would be prohibited from manufacturing or selling the products which are dependent upon such technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may litigate the issues of whether these patents are valid or infringed, but in the event of a loss we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages and be enjoined from further production or sale of such products. If we are unable to maintain relationships with certain technology partners or are unable to enter into new technology alliances on a timely basis, we may not be able to continue providing our customers with leading edge process technology, which could adversely affect our competitive position and operating results. Enhancing our process technologies is critical to our ability to provide high quality services for our customers. One way we are using to enhance our process technologies is forming technology alliances with other companies and leveraging our appropriate technology partners to advance our portfolio of process technologies to lower development risk and development cycle. We currently have joint technology development arrangements and technology sharing arrangements with several companies and research institutes. If we are unable to continue our technology alliances with these entities or maintain mutually beneficial terms on our other joint development arrangements, research and development alliances and other similar agreements or enter into new technology alliances with other leading developers of semiconductor technology, we may not be able to continue providing our customers with leading edge process technology on time, which could adversely affect our competitive position and operating results. Global or regional economic, political and social conditions could adversely affect our business and operating results. External factors such as potential terrorist attacks, acts of war, financial crises, the global economic crisis, or political, geopolitical and social turmoil in those parts of the world that serve as markets for our products could significantly adversely affect our business and operating results in ways that cannot presently be predicted. These uncertainties could make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately plan future business activities. For example, we purchase raw materials and other services from numerous suppliers, and, even if our facilities were not directly affected by such events, we could be affected by interruptions at such suppliers. Such suppliers may be less likely to be able to quickly recover from such events and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. We cannot assure you that we will have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events. More generally, these geopolitical, social and economic conditions could result in increased volatility in worldwide financial markets and economies that could adversely impact our sales. We are not insured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts or acts of war. Therefore, any of these events or circumstances could adversely affect our business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents The recurrence of an outbreak of the H7N9 and H5N1strain of flu (Avian Flu), the H1N1 strain of flu (Swine Flu), Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), or an outbreak of any other similar epidemic could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our operating results. Concerns about the spread of the H7N9 strain of flu (Avian Flu) in China and outbreaks of the H1N1 virus (Swine Flu) in North America, Europe and Asia in the past have caused governments to take measures to prevent spread of the virus. The spread of epidemics could negatively affect the economy. For example, past occurrences of epidemics such as SARS have caused different degrees of damage to the national and local economies in China. If any of our employees are identified as a possible source of spreading Swine Flu, Avian Flu or any other similar epidemic, we may be required to quarantine employees that are suspected of being infected, as well as others that have come into contact with those employees. We may also be required to disinfect our affected premises, which could cause a temporary suspension of our manufacturing capacity, thus adversely affecting our operations. A recurrence of an outbreak of Swine Flu, SARS, Avian Flu or other similar epidemic could restrict the level of economic activities generally and/or slow down or disrupt our business activities which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. Exchange rate fluctuations could increase our costs, which could adversely affect our operating results and the value of our ADSs. Our financial statements are prepared in U.S. dollars. The majority of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and our manufacturing costs and capital expenditures are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, Japanese Yen, Euros and Renminbi. Although we enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to partially hedge our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, we are still affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and each of the Japanese Yen, the Euros and the Renminbi. Any significant fluctuations among these currencies may lead to an increase in our costs, which could adversely affect our operating results. See “Item 3.D - Risk Factors - Risks Related to Conducting Operations in China — Devaluation or appreciation in the value of the Renminbi or restrictions on convertibility of the Renminbi could adversely affect our business and operating results” for a discussion of risks relating to the Renminbi. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Hong Kong dollar against the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of the ADSs, since our ordinary shares are listed and traded on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and the price of such shares are denominated in Hong Kong dollars. While the Hong Kong government has continued to pursue a pegged exchange rate policy, with the Hong Kong dollar trading in the range of HK$7.7509 to HK$7.7647 per US$1.00 for 2013, we cannot assure you that this policy will be maintained. Exchange rate fluctuations also will affect the amount of U.S. dollars received upon the payment of any cash dividends or other distributions paid in Hong Kong dollars and the Hong Kong dollar proceeds received from any sales of ordinary shares. Therefore, such fluctuations could also adversely affect the value of our ADSs. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control, we may not be able to achieve the business objectives in operations, financial reporting integrity, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We are required to comply with various PRC, Hong Kong and U.S. laws and regulations. For example, we are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring public companies to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and to effectively achieve our operation objectives. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, our operating results could be harmed, and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. As a result, our business and the trading price of our securities could be negatively impacted. 18 Table of Contents Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and systems, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. We store sensitive data, including intellectual property and proprietary business information belonging to our company, our customers, our suppliers and our business partners. The secure maintenance of this information is critical. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to breaches by hackers, employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions such as natural disasters, power losses or telecommunication failures. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored, possibly resulting in legal and regulatory actions, disruption of operations and customer services, and otherwise harming our business and future operations. Our tangible and intangible assets may be written down when impaired, any impairment charges may adversely effect on our net income. Under IFRS, we are required to assess our assets to determine whether an asset may be impaired. An impairment loss exists and is recorded in our books when the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable value. With the exception of goodwill and certain intangible assets for which an annual impairment test is required, we are required to conduct impairment tests where there is an indication of impairment of an asset. At the end of each reporting period, we are required to assess whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognized in prior periods for an asset other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the impairment loss will be reversed up to the newly estimated recoverable amount, not to exceed the original value recorded. Goodwill impairment will not be reversed. Currently we are not able to estimate the amount of impairment loss or when the loss will occur for future years. Any potential changes of the business assumptions, such as forecasted sales, selling prices and utilization, may have a material adverse effect on our net income. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Critical Accounting Policies” for a discussion of how we assess if an impairment charge is required and, if so, how the amount is determined. 19 Table of Contents We have twice settled pending litigation with TSMC at a substantial cost to us, and, if we materially breach our 2009 settlement agreement with TSMC (or certain related documents), we could be required to pay substantial liquidated damages in addition to the money damages or other remedies TSMC may be entitled to in connection with such material breach. TSMC has brought legal claims against us and our personnel on several occasions since 2002. On January 31, 2005, we entered into a settlement agreement with TSMC and agreed to pay them $175 million in installments over a period of six years (“the 2005 Settlement Agreement”). On August 25, 2006, TSMC filed a new lawsuit against us and certain of our subsidiaries in the Superior Court of the State of California for alleged breach of the 2005 Settlement Agreement, alleged breach of promissory notes and alleged trade secret misappropriation by us. We filed counterclaims against TSMC in the same court in September 2006 and also filed suit against TSMC in Beijing in November 2006. We settled these 2006 lawsuits with TSMC (“the Settled Actions”) on November 9, 2009 with a settlement agreement (“the 2009 Settlement Agreement”) which replaced the 2005 Settlement Agreement. Under the terms of the 2009 Settlement Agreement, our obligation to make the remaining payments of approximately US$40 million under the 2005 Settlement Agreement was terminated, but we agreed to pay TSMC an aggregate of US$200 million over a period of four years and committed, subject to certain terms and conditions, to issue TSMC 1,789,493,218 of our shares and one or more warrants exercisable within three years of issuance to subscribe for an aggregate of 695,914,030 of our shares, subject to adjustment, at a purchase price of HK$1.30 per share, subject to adjustment. See “Item 10 — Additional Information — Material Contracts—Other Contracts” for a more detailed description of the share and warrant issuance agreement entered into by us and TSMC in connection with the 2009 Settlement Agreement and the warrant agreement entered into between us and TSMC in connection with the 2009 Settlement Agreement. The 1,789,493,218 common shares and the warrant to purchase 695,914,030 common shares, subject to adjustment, were issued on July 5, 2010. In addition, the 2009 Settlement Agreement terminated that certain patent cross- license agreement that was entered into in connection with the 2005 Settlement Agreement under which we had previously cross-licensed patent portfolios with TSMC (“the 2005 Patent Cross-License”). Under the 2009 Settlement Agreement, each party released the other party from all claims arising out of or related to claims and counterclaims that were or could have been brought in the Settled Actions, but this release does not apply to claims of breach of the 2009 Settlement Agreement. In addition, each party covenanted not to sue the other for misappropriation or infringement of intellectual property rights, but this covenant not to sue did not extend to claims for breach of the 2009 Settlement Agreement or claims for patent or trademark infringement. Further, the 2009 Settlement Agreement provides that if we materially breach the 2009 Settlement Agreement (or certain related documents) and fail to cure that breach within 30 days after notice from TSMC, we will pay TSMC liquidated damages, in addition to any damages arising from such breach, in the amount of US$44 million plus a royalty equal to 5% of our gross revenues derived from foundry services with respect to our 90nm and larger manufacturing processes during the period commencing on the date of the breach and ending on the date that is 20 years from the date of the 2009 Settlement Agreement. 20 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that TSMC will not sue us again in the future. For example, TSMC is not prohibited under the 2009 Settlement Agreement from bringing infringement claims against us which could not have been brought in the Settled Actions. Further, we are subject to several obligations under the 2009 Settlement Agreement, including obligations to protect the confidentiality of certain information, and TSMC could, in the future, allege a breach by us of the 2009 Settlement Agreement. If TSMC were successful in a claim of material breach by us of our obligations under the 2009 Settlement Agreement (or certain related documents), we have agreed to pay substantial liquidated damages as described above. TSMC is a competitor of ours and has substantially greater resources than we do to investigate and pursue legal actions. If TSMC successfully brings additional legal actions against us, we could be subject to significant penalties which could include monetary payments and/or injunctive relief such as requirements to discontinue sales of products. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and, in any event, the cost of litigation could be substantial. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not fully inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the People’s Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct full inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five Mainland China -based accounting firms, including the affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Mainland Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms (including the Mainland Chinese affiliate of our auditors) and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The auditors located in Mainland China are not in a position to produce documents directly to the SEC pursuant to the SEC’s request because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the administrative proceedings affect equally all audit firms based in Mainland China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, an administrative judge at the SEC reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms in Mainland China should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. Although, the principal auditor of our financial statements is Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in Hong Kong which is not subject to the proceedings or the Initial Decision, our auditors use their Mainland China affiliate to assist in the auditing of the Mainland China components of our operations. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate sanctions, if any, to be placed on these accounting firms. Once such a determination by the SEC Commissioners was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the United States federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major Mainland China operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. U.S. regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals, may affect our, or our supply chain’s, ability to purchase or acquire certain raw materials at competitive prices. Many industries rely on materials which are subject to regulation concerning certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries (together “Covered Countries”). These minerals, as used in electronics manufacturing, are commonly referred to as conflict minerals and include tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold. The U.S. SEC has adopted regulations that will require companies such as ours to disclose the use of conflict materials and to take certain steps to verify those disclosures with suppliers. Although we expect that we and our suppliers will be able to comply with the requirements of these new regulations, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to gather and verify all the information required. In addition, there may be increasing public sentiment that companies should completely avoid using conflict minerals from Covered Countries, even if such minerals do not support conflict and are thus legally compliant. Although we believe our suppliers do not rely on conflict-supporting materials, a time may come when we cannot obtain adequate supplies from supply chains completely outside Covered Countries. A failure to obtain necessary information or to maintain adequate supplies of materials from supply chains outside Covered Countries may delay our production, increasing the risk of losing customers and business. Further, due to the complexity of our supply chain, we may not be able to trace all sourcing of conflict minerals and may face reputational harm resulting from making disclosure of the use of such conflict minerals. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Manufacturing Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, costly and potentially vulnerable to impurities and other disruptions, which could significantly increase our costs and delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment, demand a high degree of precision and may have to be modified to improve yields and product performance. Dust and other impurities, difficulties in the fabrication process or defects with respect to the equipment or facilities used can lower yields, because quality control problems interrupt production or result in losses of products in process. As system complexity has increased and process technology has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become even more demanding. As a result, we may experience production difficulties, which could significantly increase our costs and delay product shipments to our customers. For products that cannot meet the quality, standards of our customers, we may suffer indemnification losses in addition to the production cost. We may have difficulty in ramping up production, which could cause delays in product deliveries and loss of customers and otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. We may experience difficulty in ramping up production at new or existing facilities, such as our Shanghai and Beijing 12” fab in which we expect to add a significant amount of new equipment. This could be due to a variety of factors, including hiring and training new personnel, implementing new fabrication processes, recalibrating and re-qualifying existing processes and the inability to achieve required yield levels. In the future, we may face construction delays or interruptions, infrastructure failure, or delays in upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, which may adversely affect our ability to ramp up production in accordance with our plans. Our failure to ramp up our production on a timely basis could cause delays in product deliveries, which may result in the loss of customers and sales. It could also prevent us from recouping our investments in a timely manner or at all, and otherwise adversely affect our business and operating results. We have formed joint ventures that, if not successful, could adversely impact our business and operating results. In July 2004, we announced an agreement with Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., to establish Toppan SMIC Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., a joint venture in Shanghai, to manufacture color filters and micro-lenses for CMOS image sensors. The results of our joint ventures are reflected in our operating results to the extent of our ownership interest, and gains of the joint ventures could impact our operating results. As integration of assets and operations being contributed by each partner will involve complex activities that must be completed in a short period of time, the joint ventures may face numerous challenges to successful operation, including all operational risks that customarily relate to manufacturing, sales, service, marketing, and corporate functions, which, if unsuccessful, may adversely impact, our business and operating result. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain raw materials, spare parts and outsourcing services in a timely manner, our production schedules could be delayed and our costs could increase. We depend on suppliers of raw materials, such as silicon wafers, gases and chemicals, and spare equipment parts, in order to maintain our production processes. To maintain operations, we must obtain from our suppliers sufficient quantities of quality raw materials and spare equipment parts at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. The most important raw material used in our production is silicon in the form of raw wafers, almost all of which are sourced from outside China. We currently purchase approximately 73.41% of our overall raw wafer requirements from our top three raw wafer suppliers. In addition, a portion of our gas and chemical requirements currently must be sourced from outside China. We may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and spare parts in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. In addition, from time to time, we may need to reject raw materials and parts that do not meet our specifications, resulting in potential delays or declines in output. If the supply of raw materials and necessary spare parts is substantially reduced or disrupted; if there are significant increases in their prices; or if the lead times for the supply of raw materials and necessary spare parts are extended, we may incur additional costs to acquire sufficient quantities of these parts and materials to maintain our production schedules and commitments to customers. We outsource certain wafer manufacturing, assembly and testing services to third parties. Any delay or interruption in the provision of supplies and/or services could result in our inability to meet customer demand or fulfill contract terms, damage our reputation and customer relationships and adversely affect our business. Our production may be interrupted, limited or delayed if we cannot maintain sufficient sources of fresh water and electricity, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The semiconductor fabrication process requires extensive amounts of fresh water and a stable source of electricity. As our production capabilities increase and our business grows, our requirements for these resources will grow substantially. While we have not, to date, experienced any instances of the lack of sufficient supplies of water or material disruptions in the electricity supply to any of our fabs, we may not have access to sufficient supplies of water and electricity to accommodate our planned growth. Droughts, pipeline interruptions, power interruptions, electricity shortages or government intervention, particularly in the form of rationing, are factors that could restrict our access to these utilities in the areas in which our fabs are located. In particular, our fab in Tianjin and our Beijing mega-fab are located in areas that are susceptible to severe water shortages during the summer months. If there is an insufficient supply of fresh water or electricity to satisfy our requirements, we may need to limit or delay our production, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, a power outage, even of very limited duration, could result in a loss of wafers in production and deterioration in yield. Our operations may be delayed or interrupted due to natural disasters which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on suppliers of raw materials, such as silicon wafers, gases and chemicals, and spare equipment parts, in order to maintain our production processes in addition to requiring extensive amounts of fresh water and a stable source of electricity. The occurrence of natural disasters such as the March 2011 earthquake in Japan may disrupt this required access to goods and services provided by our suppliers as well as access to fresh water and electricity. As a result of such risk, our production could be limited or delayed due to the disruption of access to required supplies, in addition to possible damage caused to our manufacturing equipment and related infrastructure, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 24 Table of Contents We are subject to the risk of damage due to fires or explosions because the materials we use in our manufacturing processes are highly flammable. Such damage could temporarily reduce our manufacturing capacity, thereby adversely affecting our business and operating results. We use highly flammable materials such as silane and hydrogen in our manufacturing processes and are therefore subject to the risk of loss arising from explosions and fires. The risk of explosion and fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Our comprehensive fire insurance and insurance for the loss of property and the loss of profit resulting from business interruption, may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses due to an explosion or fire. If any of our fabs were to be damaged or cease operations as a result of an explosion or fire, it could temporarily reduce our manufacturing capacity, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be delayed or interrupted and our business could suffer as a result of steps we may be required to take in order to comply with environmental regulations. We are subject to a variety of Chinese environmental regulations relating to the use, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our production processes. Any failure or any claim that we have failed to comply with these regulations could cause delays in our production and capacity expansion and affect our company’s public image, either of which could harm our business. In addition, any failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial fines or other liabilities or require us to suspend or adversely modify our operations. Any new regulations or customer requirements related to climate change or environmental protection could negatively impact our operating results. There is global concern that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and other human activities have or will cause significant changes in weather patterns, including natural disasters. Such climate change creates risks, such as the physical risks of increased sea levels or extreme weather events, and the financial risks of causing adverse effects on our operations, financial condition, supply chain, increased manufacturing costs, or reduced demand for products believed to contribute to climate change. We may become subject to legislation, regulation, or treaty obligations designed to address global climate change, Chinese air quality, and other environmental concerns. Compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly, causing us to incur additional energy and environmental costs, as well as costs for defending and resolving legal claims. Furthermore, continued serious air pollution in Chinese cities where we operate could pose long-term health risks to our employees and make recruiting and retaining employees more difficult. For example, in December 2013 Shanghai air pollution index reached “severe” level which is the worst in a six-tier national rating system. 25 Table of Contents Risks related to Our New Investment Fund Our performance may be affected by the performance of our new investment fund and we may incur losses as a result of ineffective investment. On February 27, 2014, our wholly owned subsidiary, Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Shanghai) Corporation, or SMIC Shanghai, established a wholly-owned investment fund in Shanghai which is called China IC Capital Co., Ltd, or the Fund. The Fund has an initial capital of RMB500 million, all funded by SMIC Shanghai. With an operating period of 15 years from the date of the issuance of its business license, the Fund will be operated and managed by an equity investment management company named China Fortune-Tech Capital Co., Ltd, and established by SMIC Shanghai and an independent third party on February 27, 2014. The Fund will invest primarily in the integrated circuits industry but will also invest in other strategic emerging industries such as energy saving and environmental protection, information technology and new energy as well as some other traditional industries. While we generally expect China’s integrated circuits industry to develop rapidly in the next decade and we believe that the other industries we will invest in also have a promising prospect of development, uncertainties due to the slow recovery of the world economy, the global market demand and consumption behaviors may lead to weak market demand in the industries in which we may choose to invest and our investees may not be able to execute their business strategies as successfully as they expect. As a result, there is no assurance that our investment will be successful. We may incur losses in our investments through the Fund and our overall financial results may be adversely affected by such failure in the Fund’s investment activities. Risks Related to Conducting Operations in China Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and benefits from certain government incentives, and changes in these regulations or incentives could adversely affect our business and operating results. The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China. China’s government has also implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a market- oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. New regulations or the readjustment of previously implemented regulations could require us to change our business plan, increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, the Chinese government and provincial and local governments have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to domestic companies in the semiconductor industry, including our company, in order to encourage the development of the industry. Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies, and other measures. Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. 26 Table of Contents We face uncertainty from PRC’s Circular on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Income Derived by Non-resident Enterprises from Equity Transfers. The State Administration of Taxation of PRC issued the Circular on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Income Derived by Non-resident Enterprises from Equity Transfers, or Circular 698, on December 10, 2009, which addresses the transfer of equity by non-PRC resident enterprises. Under this Circular, the overseas controlling party that effectively controls a PRC resident enterprise through an overseas intermediate holding company, and “indirectly transfers” the equity interests in such PRC resident enterprise by selling shares of the intermediate holding company, is required to report such transfer to the PRC tax authority if the intermediate holding company is located in a foreign jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate of less than 12.5% or does not levy tax on such foreign- sourced capital gains of its residents. If the intermediate holding company mainly serves as tax avoidance vehicle and does not have any reasonable business purpose, the PRC in-charge tax authority may, upon verification of the State Administration of Taxation, disregard the intermediate holding company and re- characterize the equity transfer by referring to its economic essence, and as a result, the overseas controlling party may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax for the capital gains realized from the equity transfer. We do not believe that the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs by our non-PRC shareholders should be treated as an indirect transfer of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries subject to Circular 698, as the share transfer is not carried out for the main purposes of avoiding PRC taxes. However, Circular 698 is relatively new and there is uncertainty as to the interpretation and application of Circular 698 by the PRC tax authorities in practice. If you are required to pay PRC withholding tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we cannot predict how Circular 698 will affect our financial conditions or operations. For example, we may be required to expend valuable resources on complying with Circular 698 or establishing that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our business is highly dependent on growth in the electronics manufacturing supply chain in China, any slowdown in this growth could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business is highly dependent upon the economy and the business environment in China. In particular, our growth strategy is based upon the assumption that demand in China for devices that use semiconductors will continue to grow. Therefore, any slowdown in the growth of consumer demand in China for products that use semiconductors, such as computers, mobile phones or other consumer electronics, could have a serious adverse effect on our business. In addition, our business plan assumes that an increasing number of non- Chinese IDMs, fabless semiconductor companies and systems companies will establish operations in China. Any decline in the rate of migration to China of semiconductor design companies or companies that require semiconductors as components for their products could adversely affect our business and operating results. 27 Table of Contents Limits placed on exports into China could harm our business and operating results. The growth of our business depends on the ability of our suppliers to export and our ability to import, into China, equipment, materials, spare parts, process know-how and other technologies and hardware. Any burdensome new restrictions placed on the import and export of these items could adversely impact our growth and substantially harm our business. In particular, the international export control regime led by the United States requires our suppliers and us to obtain licenses to export and import, as applicable, certain of the above items. If we or our suppliers are unable to obtain such licenses in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Devaluation or appreciation in the value of the Renminbi or restrictions on convertibility of the Renminbi could adversely affect our business and operating results. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in China’s governmental policies and to international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. The Renminbi to U.S. dollar exchange rate experienced significant volatility prior to 1994, including periods of sharp devaluation. On July 21, 2005, the PBOC announced an adjustment of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to Renminbi from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11 and modified the system by which the exchange rates are determined. The central parity rate of the U.S. Dollar to Renminbi was set at 6.0969 on December 31, 2013 compared with 6.2855 on December 31, 2012 by the PBOC. The cumulative appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar in 2013 was approximately 3.09%. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a result, the exchange rate may become volatile and the Renminbi may be temporarily devalued again against the U.S. dollar or other currencies, or the Renminbi may be permitted to enter into a full or limited free float, which may result in an appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. In the past, financial markets in many Asian countries have experienced severe volatility and, as a result, some Asian currencies have experienced significant devaluation from time to time. The devaluation of some Asian currencies may have the effect of rendering exports from China more expensive and less competitive and therefore place pressure on China’s government to devalue the Renminbi. An appreciation in the value of the Renminbi could have a similar effect. Any devaluation of the Renminbi could result in an increase in volatility of Asian currency and capital markets. Future volatility of Asian financial markets could have an adverse impact on our ability to expand our product sales into Asian markets outside of China. We receive a portion of our sales in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 19.3% of our sales were denominated in Renminbi. While we have used these proceeds for the payment of our Renminbi expenses, we may in the future need to convert these sales into foreign currencies to allow us to purchase imported materials and equipment, particularly as we expect the proportion of our sales to China-based companies to increase in the future. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade may be made in foreign currencies without government approval, except for certain procedural requirements. The Chinese government may, however, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions and prohibit us from converting our Renminbi sales into foreign currencies. If this were to occur, we may not be able to meet our foreign currency payment obligations. 28 Table of Contents China’s legal system embodies uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operating results. Since 1979, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in China. Despite this activity to develop a legal system, China’s system of laws has not been fully implemented. Even where adequate laws exist, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on such laws may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary system in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be effected by government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our activities in China will be subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local Chinese government agencies. Because of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to timely secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. Our corporate structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our Chinese operating subsidiaries, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese subsidiary to another in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our Chinese operating subsidiaries, Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Shanghai) Corporation, or SMIC Shanghai, Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Beijing) Corporation, or SMIC Beijing, and Semiconductor Manufacturing International (Tianjin) Corporation, or SMIC Tianjin. The ability of these subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other payments to us may be restricted by factors that include changes in applicable foreign exchange and other laws and regulations. In particular, under Chinese law, these operating subsidiaries may only pay dividends after 10% of their net profit has been set aside as reserve funds, unless such reserves have reached at least 50% of their respective registered capital. In addition, the profit available for distribution from our Chinese operating subsidiaries is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from the one performed in accordance with IFRS. As a result, we may not have sufficient distributions from our Chinese subsidiaries to enable necessary profit distributions to us or any distributions to our shareholders in the future. Distributions by our Chinese subsidiaries to us may be subject to governmental approval and taxation. Any transfer of funds from us to our Chinese subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. In addition, it is not permitted under Chinese law for our Chinese subsidiaries to directly lend money to one another. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditures plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from us to our Chinese subsidiaries. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our Chinese subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds from one Chinese subsidiary to another in a timely manner. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares and ADSs Future sales of securities by us or our shareholders may decrease the value of your investment. Future sales by us or our existing shareholders of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs in the public markets could adversely affect market prices prevailing from time to time. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of any such future sales or of the perception that any such future sales will occur, on the market price for our ordinary shares or ADSs. Holders of our ADSs will not have the same voting rights as the holders of our shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs have appointed the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Holders of our ADSs may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that holders of our ADSs, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. The laws of the Cayman Islands and China may not provide our shareholders with benefits provided to shareholders of corporations incorporated in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, and by the Companies Law, as revised from time to time, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands and from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. 30 Table of Contents It may be difficult to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against our company, which may limit the remedies otherwise available to our shareholders. Substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Almost all of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, a number of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for a person to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities law of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or China, respectively, against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. See “Item 4.B — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Enforceability of Civil Liabilities. 31 Table of Contents 